7/9/09 4:01 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal01-106-6376-328240&type=hitlist&num=19
Counterterrorism and Domestic
Intelligence
2007 TRIA Extension Backs Up Insurers
2007 Sept. 11 Recommendations
Enacted, Making Good on
Democrats' Pledge
2007 FISA Gets Temporary Fix as
Congress Debates Immunity for
Telecom Firms
2007 Bipartisan CFIUS Overhaul Calls
for Tighter Review of Foreign
Investment
2006 Ports Debate Focuses on
Screening
2006 NSA Program Prompts Flurry of
Bills
2005 Disputes Delay Reauthorization
Of Anti-Terrorism Act Provisions
2004 Terrorism Insurance Extension
Dies
2003 Congress Re-Examines Patriot
Act
2003 Bioshield Funding Decision
Delayed
2002 Law Calls for Tighter Port
Security
2001 Provisions of the Anti-Terrorism
Law
2001 Hill Meets Intelligence Needs
2001 CJS Bill Includes Anti-Terror
Funds
2001 Bio-Terrorism Bill Founders
2001 Anti-Terror Bill Zooms Into Law
1998 Intelligence Agencies Receive
Small Spending Increase,
Expanded Wiretap Authority
1996 President Signs Anti-Terrorism
Bill
1996 Anti-Terrorism Provisions
1995 Lawmakers Take Aim at
Terrorism
1994 Bill Facilitates Police Wiretapping
1985 Presidential Address: Reagan on
World-Wide Terrorism
1978 Controls Tightened on Use of
Wiretaps
1978 Anti-Terrorist Bill
1977 Wiretapping Limits
1976 Domestic Wiretapping
1967 CIA Secret Financing of Private
Groups Disclosed
Intelligence Spending, Operations and
Oversight
Terrorism: Domestic
Terrorism: Foreign
Provisions of the Anti-Terrorism Law
An article from CQ Almanac 2001
The following are the main provisions of the new anti-terrorism law (PL 107 –
56), signed Oct. 26.
Surveillance
Wiretap predicates. Terrorism and computer fraud and abuse were added to
the list of crimes that are “predicates” for obtaining a wiretap, which means a
court can give government agents permission to tap telephones when they
are investigating such crimes. (Provision expires Dec. 31, 2005.)
Information sharing. Information received during grand jury proceedings can
be disclosed to law enforcement, intelligence, protective, immigration or
national defense or national security personnel. Any foreign intelligence
information obtained by law enforcement officials during wiretaps, electronic
surveillance or a criminal investigation can be made available as well.
“Intelligence information” is defined as any information that would help the
United States protect against attacks, sabotage and clandestine intelligence
activities or that concerns foreign powers and relates to national defense or
foreign affairs.
A federal court must be notified after any grand jury information is disclosed.
The attorney general must develop standards for release of this information
when the subject is a “U.S. person,” generally a citizen, a legal permanent
resident or a U.S. company. Grand jury information also may be disclosed at
the request of defendants when they argue that it includes information that
may be grounds for dismissal of the indictment against them.
Individuals who receive information under this authorization may use it only in
the official performance of their duties.
The authority for law enforcement to share foreign intelligence information
obtained through wiretaps or electronic surveillance expires Dec. 31, 2005.
Intelligence information collection. The law clarifies that authorities using
wiretaps and other kinds of electronic surveillance to collect information for a
foreign intelligence investigation are not bound by the procedures and
restrictions that apply to authorities conducting the same kinds of surveillance
for a criminal investigation.
Hiring translators. The FBI is authorized to hire additional translators. The
administration must report to Congress on the number of translators working
for the FBI and for the Justice Department overall.
“Roving” wiretaps. Investigators working under the authority of the Federal
Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) may use “roving” wiretaps when a court
finds that the actions of a suspect may thwart traditional wiretaps. In those
cases, investigators can obtain a court order allowing them to tap whatever
telephones a suspect may use, rather than getting a court order for each
telephone. (Provision expires Dec. 31, 2005.) FISA (PL 95–511 ) is the law
authorizing wiretaps of suspected foreign criminals or spies. (1978 Almanac,
p. 186)
Intelligence investigations. Court orders for FISA investigations against
people considered to be agents of a foreign power and who are not U.S.
persons are good for 120 days, rather than the 90 days allowed previously.
After that period, a court can extend the order anywhere from 90 days to a
year. Search warrants in such cases are good for 90 days, rather than the 45
days allowed previously. (Provision expires Dec. 31, 2005.)
FISA judges increase. The law authorizes an increase in the number of
district court judges who approve FISA requests from seven to 11 and
 
7/9/09 4:01 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal01-106-6376-328240&type=hitlist&num=19
district court judges who approve FISA requests from seven to 11 and
requires that three of them live within 20 miles of the District of Columbia.
Voice mail seizure. The government is allowed to seize voice mail messages with a warrant. Investigators may get one
warrant that is good nationwide, rather than having to obtain a separate warrant for each jurisdiction. (Provision expires
Dec. 31, 2005.)
Credit card information. Investigators can get subpoenas to obtain subscriber credit card or bank account numbers
and other payment information from electronic communication providers, such as cable companies or Internet services.
Cable companies and the Internet. The government can conduct surveillance on Internet users without notice, even if
they obtain their Internet access through a cable company rather than over telephone lines. Previously, to protect the
privacy of consumers, if the government sought information about a cable customer, the company had to notify the client
of the request. Revealing subscribers' cable viewing habits is expressly forbidden.
Emergency information disclosure. Internet service providers can show the government a subscriber's electronic
communications when they believe there is a risk of immediate danger, death or serious bodily injury. With a court order
or search warrant, law enforcement agents also can force the providers to disclose such information. (Provision expires
Dec. 31, 2005.)
“Sneak and peek” searches. Investigators can search suspects' property without notifying them immediately if the
government thinks prior notice of the search would have an “adverse result” on the investigation. The warrant could not
be used to seize any property or electronic information, unless the court finds reasonable necessity for the seizure. The
individual must be notified within a “reasonable period” after the search has taken place, although the law does not
define “reasonable.” A court can allow investigators to keep the search secret longer if “good cause” is shown.
FISA wiretaps. The law broadens the authority of the government to get court orders under FISA for using pen
registers and trap-and-trace devices, which can be used to track telephone calls and Internet communications. Instead
of showing that the person under surveillance is the “agent of a foreign power,” investigators must show the information
is “relevant” to an ongoing investigation aimed at protecting against international terrorism or clandestine intelligence
activities. The government may not use this enhanced surveillance power against U.S. citizens if the investigation was
triggered solely by activities protected by the First Amendment. For example, citizens cannot be investigated simply
based on what groups they associate with or things they have said. (Provision expires Dec. 31, 2005.)
Business records. A court may issue a FISA order allowing investigators to obtain business records, but only in
international terrorism or clandestine intelligence investigations. Investigations of U.S. citizens may not be based solely
on activities protected by the First Amendment. The type of business records that may be obtained with the FISA court
order is broadened to include any books, records, documents or items. Twice a year, the attorney general must report to
Congress how many times such a court order has been requested and the outcome of each request. (Provision expires
Dec. 31, 2005.)
Internet communications tracking. Pen registers and trap-and-trace devices, which track incoming and outgoing
telephone calls, may be used to track Internet communications. Investigators can get one federal court order good
throughout the country allowing them to use such devices, but they may not record the content of the communications.
Internet service providers are protected from liability in such cases. If investigators install their own pen registers and
trap-and-trace devices on a packet-switched data network, they must note who installed the device and anyone who
had access to it, the date and time of installation and removal, the duration of any access to the information, what data
was collected, and how the device was configured, including any modifications. This record must be provided to the
court in secret within 30 days after the device is removed.
Computer hacking interception. Law enforcement agents can intercept electronic communication if the owners of a
computer system or network believe someone is attacking their system from the outside. The agents' actions must be
part of an ongoing investigation and involve only communications to or from the suspects. (The provision expires Dec.
31, 2005.) Intelligence agents working under the authority of FISA also may intercept such communications.
Broadening intelligence authority. The law allows FISA investigations in those cases where obtaining foreign
intelligence information is a “significant” purpose of the investigation. Such surveillance previously was permitted only
when obtaining foreign intelligence information was “the purpose” of the investigation. (Provision expires Dec. 31, 2005.)
Nationwide search warrant. The law authorizes nationwide federal search warrants good in any U.S. jurisdiction for
terrorism investigations, instead of requiring a separate warrant in each jurisdiction.
Nationwide electronic search warrant. Courts with jurisdiction over the crime under investigation may issue a
nationwide federal search warrant, good anywhere in the country, for e-mail and other electronic information. (Provision
expires Dec. 31, 2005.)
Exports to Taliban. The president may unilaterally restrict exports of agricultural products, food and medicine or
medical devices to the Taliban or any part of Afghanistan controlled by the Taliban.
Internet service provider protection. The law states that it does not impose any new technical obligation on Internet
service providers in order to comply with its provisions. Compensation is authorized for Internet service providers or
anyone else who helps set up pen registers and trap-and-trace devices on computer networks.
Civil suits for disclosure of information. If anyone unlawfully discloses information obtained through the law's wiretap
authority, the United States can be sued in civil court. If the court finds the disclosure to have been unlawful, there is a
minimum fine of $10,000 plus litigation costs. No jury trials are permitted for these cases. If the court finds a government
7/9/09 4:01 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal01-106-6376-328240&type=hitlist&num=19
minimum fine of $10,000 plus litigation costs. No jury trials are permitted for these cases. If the court finds a government
employee is guilty of unlawfully disclosing the information, the government must investigate whether administrative
action against the employee is also warranted. (Provision expires Dec. 31, 2005.)
Liability protection. Providers of wire or electronic communication services, a landlord, custodian or anyone else who
assists with investigations cannot be sued for providing information to law enforcement under this law.
Continuing investigations. Investigations into offenses committed before the law's various surveillance provisions
expire will be allowed to continue past the expiration date of Dec. 31, 2005.
Money Laundering
Special measure for risky institutions. The law authorizes the Treasury secretary to impose new “special measures”
against foreign jurisdictions, foreign banks, transactions involving such jurisdictions or institutions, or one or more types
of accounts that the secretary, after consulting with the secretary of State and the attorney general, determines are
being used for money-laundering.
The special measures are: (1) requiring additional record-keeping or reporting for particular transactions; (2) requiring
the identification of the real owners of the money in certain accounts at U.S. banks; (3) requiring the identification of
customers of a foreign bank who write checks out of the bank's U.S. bank accounts; (4) requiring the identification of
customers of a foreign bank who use one of its U.S. bank accounts for currency exchanges and other purposes; and (5)
after consulting with the secretary of State, the attorney general and the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board,
restricting or prohibiting the the ability of certain foreign banks to open or maintain U.S. bank accounts. The first four
measures may not be imposed for longer than 120 days without writing new regulations. Measure five may be imposed
only by regulation.
Due diligence requirements. Foreign financial institutions that establish, maintain, administer or manage private bank
accounts in the United States for non-U.S. citizens must ensure that the accounts are not being used for money-
laundering. U.S. financial institutions doing business with foreign banks at risk of being used for money-laundering also
must watch for such transactions. The law sets out minimum standards that institutions must meet in ensuring that
transactions are legal.
Prohibition on foreign “shell banks.” Depository institutions, credit unions and branches or agencies of foreign banks
are prohibited from establishing, maintaining, administering or managing bank accounts in the United States for foreign
banks that have no physical property.
Information sharing. Regulators may help banks meet the law's new standards for oversight by giving them information
about people engaged in or suspected of terrorist acts or money-laundering. Banks may cooperate with each other in
identifying and reporting people and counties suspected of terrorism or money-laundering.
Money-laundering predicates. The list of offenses covered by money-laundering laws is expanded to include foreign
corruption offenses, such as export control violations, some customs and firearms offenses, and felony violations of the
Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938, which requires agents of foreign governments to register with the Department
of Justice.
Property confiscation rights. Owners of property confiscated under money-laundering laws are permitted to present
an “affirmative defense”—meaning they can go on the offensive against the government, rather than simply defending
themselves. They can argue, for example, that there were mitigating circumstances that should exempt their property
from confiscation.
Federal jurisdiction. The law gives U. S. district courts jurisdiction over foreigners engaged in money-laundering in the
United States, over foreign banks opening U.S. bank accounts, and over foreigners who use, sell, or otherwise transfer
assets that have been forfeited by order of a U.S. court. Federal courts may issue a pretrial restraining order or take
other action to keep forfeited property in the United States. Federal courts also are authorized to appoint a receiver to
collect and take custody of assets forfeited because of criminal or civil money-laundering or forfeiture judgments.
Money-laundering crime. The law makes it a crime to use foreign banks for money-laundering.
“Payable-through” accounts. Amounts deposited by foreign banks in an interbank “payable-through” account, a type
of account they can hold at a U.S. bank, will be treated as having been deposited in the United States for purposes of
forfeiture rules. The attorney general may, in the interest of justice and in keeping with the U.S. national interest,
suspend a forfeiture proceeding.
Information response time. U.S. banks must reply within 120 hours to a request for information from a U.S. regulator
who is checking on their compliance with money-laundering laws.
Foreign bank records. Foreign banks that maintain their own accounts at U.S. banks must appoint agents to receive
legal documents within the United States. The attorney general and the Treasury secretary may issue a summons or
subpoena to any foreign bank for records, wherever located, from “correspondent accounts,” another kind of account
that foreign banks can maintain in the United States. U.S. banks must sever correspondent arrangements with foreign
banks that do not answer or comply with such summons or subpoenas.
Foreign forfeiture. The government may seek a restraining order to keep people from moving or disposing of property
outside the United States that has been ordered forfeited or confiscated. U.S. courts may force a convicted criminal to
return forfeited property located abroad. Courts can order such property returned even if the owners have challenged
the government's right to take it from them and are waiting for a ruling on their case.
7/9/09 4:01 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal01-106-6376-328240&type=hitlist&num=19
Broadened definition of financial institution. Credit unions, futures commission merchants, commodity trading
advisors and commodity pool operators are added to the definition of financial institution for purposes of the Bank
Secrecy Act, a 1970 law that established transaction reporting requirements for financial institutions. The law also
clarifies that the term “federal functional regulator” includes the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for purposes of
the Bank Secrecy Act.
Corporate fugitive. Corporations cannot challenge forfeiture orders against them if their majority shareholder is a
fugitive. No fugitive may challenge a forfeiture claim on behalf of a corporation.
Anonymous funds transfers. The Treasury secretary is authorized to issue regulations concerning the maintenance of
concentrated assets in accounts at U.S. depository institutions in order to prevent an institution's customers from
anonymously directing funds into or through concentration accounts, a type of bank account that commingles funds from
various sources.
Customer identification. The Treasury secretary must establish minimum standards that financial institutions must
meet in verifying the identities of customers. Financial institutions must keep verification records and check the names
of customers against lists of known or suspected terrorists.
Foreign customer identification. By April 2002, the Treasury secretary must report to Congress on the most effective
way to verify the identities of foreigners opening accounts in U.S. financial institutions and assign them identification
numbers that work like the tax identification number now given to U.S. citizens.
Money laundering record. In ruling on bank mergers or similar applications, the Federal Reserve Board and the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation must look at how effectively banks or bank holding companies have combatted
money-laundering in the United States and in overseas branches. This provision applies only to applications submitted
after Dec. 31, 2001.
Wire transfer origination. The law requires the Treasury secretary to take all reasonable steps to encourage foreign
governments to require that wire transfers sent to the United States include the name of the person requesting the
transfer. The secretary must report annually to the House Committee on Financial Services and the Senate Committee
on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs on the progress toward that goal.
Anonymous funds transfers. The law increases civil and criminal penalties for people or institutions who try to move
money anonymously in and out of bank accounts in violation of the new monitoring standards.
Anti-money-laundering programs. The law requires financial institutions to establish anti-money-laundering programs.
The Treasury secretary may set minimum standards for such programs. This section takes effect April  26, 2002.
Safe harbor. When checking employment references, banks can share information with each other about employees
who may have taken part in illegal activities. Banks cannot be sued for releasing such information as long as they do not
do it with malicious intent.
Suspicious activity reports. The Treasury secretary is required to publish proposed regulations requiring broker-
dealers to report suspicious transactions. The secretary must publish final regulations by July 1, 2002. The secretary
also may require futures commission merchants, commodity trading advisers and certain commodity pool operators to
report suspicious transactions.
IRS and bank secrecy. By April 2002, the Treasury secretary must report to Congress whether the responsibility for
certain regulatory functions under the Bank Secrecy Act should be taken from the IRS and given to another agency.
Information sharing. The government may use banking and financial information in intelligence activities aimed at
fighting international terrorism.
Underground banking systems. The law clarifies that the Bank Secrecy Act treats certain underground banking
systems as financial institutions, and that record-keeping rules apply to them. The Treasury secretary must report to
Congress by Oct. 26, 2002, on the need for additional legislation or regulatory controls addressing underground banking
systems.
Loans and fighting terrorism. The Treasury secretary may instruct the U.S. executive director of the World Bank and
other international financial institutions to support loans and other assistance for nations that the president determines
are contributing to the fight against terrorism. The Treasury secretary can require audits of those financial institutions to
ensure that the money is not paid to people engaged in terrorism or supporting it.
Financial crimes enforcement. The law makes the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) a bureau within
the Treasury Department and describes the duties of the FinCEN's director. The Treasury secretary is required to
establish operating procedures for the governmentwide data access service and communications center that FinCEN
maintains. The secretary must report by April 2002, and annually thereafter, on ways to improve the system for
monitoring foreign bank and brokerage accounts owned by U.S. citizens. By July 2002, the secretary is required to work
with FinCEN to establish a security network for financial institutions to file reports on suspicious transactions and
provide them with information about transactions that deserve special scrutiny.
Increased penalties. The law increases from $100,000 to $1 million the maximum civil and criminal penalties for a
violation of the new investigation and special measures requirements.
7/9/09 4:01 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal01-106-6376-328240&type=hitlist&num=19
Law enforcement. Certain Federal Reserve personnel may act as law enforcement officers and carry firearms to protect
and safeguard Federal Reserve employees and premises.
Reporting large transactions. Any person who receives more than $10,000 in one transaction or two or more related
transactions in the course of his trade or business must file a report with FinCEN. People who do not report large
transactions to FinCEN may have their money confiscated.
Companies offering wire transfers must be licensed under state law or registered under federal law. Funds transmitted
illegally may be seized.
Reporting exemptions. The Treasury secretary must report to Congress before Oct. 26, 2002, on the results of a study
of the possible expansion of the system for exempting transactions from the currency transaction reporting
requirements, and on ways to improve the use of the exemption system by financial institutions to reduce the volume of
unneeded currency transaction reports.
New smuggling crime. Smuggling more than $10,000 into or out of the United States is a violation of the Bank Secrecy
Act.
Counterfeiting sentences increased. The law increases the maximum sentences for various counterfeiting offenses
and expands the definition of counterfeiting to include making or acquiring an analog, digital or electronic image of any
“obligation or other security of the United States,” such as U.S. currency. It also increases the maximum sentences for
various counterfeiting offenses involving foreign money and expands the definition of counterfeiting to include making or
acquiring an analog, digital, or electronic image of the currency of a foreign government.
Material support for terrorism. The law expands the legal definition of money-laundering the proceeds of terrorism to
include providing material support or resources to terrorist organizations.
Reporting large transactions. The law applies the financial crimes prohibitions to conduct committed abroad in cases
where the tools or proceeds of the offense pass through or are in the United States.
Sunset provisions. The money-laundering provisions are to be terminated Oct. 1, 2005, if Congress enacts a joint
resolution saying these provisions no longer have the force of law. Any joint resolution to this effect will receive
expedited congressional consideration.
Border Control
INS employees. The law waives caps on the number of full-time employees at the Immigration and Naturalization
Service (INS). It also lifts the cap in PL 106–553 on the amount of overtime the INS can pay its employees.
Northern border personnel. The law authorizes money to triple the number of Border Patrol agents, INS inspectors
and Customs Service personnel along the border with Canada.
Sharing of criminal background information. To help the INS and the State Department determine whether people
applying for admission to the United States have criminal records, the FBI and the attorney general must provide
information from the National Crime Information Center's Interstate Identification Index, the Wanted Persons File and
other sources. By Oct. 26, 2003, the State Department and the attorney general must report to Congress on how this
system has been implemented.
Identification technology. The attorney general, working with the secretary of State and others, must develop a
reliable technology standard for checking the identities of those seeking visas or trying to enter the United States. A
report is due to Congress on April 26, 2003, and every two years thereafter, on how work on this standard is
progressing.
Automated fingerprint system. The law authorizes $2 million for the attorney general, the FBI and the INS to study
whether the FBI's Integrated Automated Fingerprint Identification System could be used at U.S. ports of entry and at
overseas consular posts.
Terrorist activity. The law broadens the definition of “terrorist activity” for individuals seeking to enter the United States.
It bars from the United States anyone who is a representative of a political or social group that publicly endorses terrorist
activity in the United States, and anyone who uses a position of prominence within a country to endorse terrorist
activities or encourage others to do so. The law also bars the spouses or children of anyone engaging in terrorist
activities, unless they could not reasonably have known of the activities.
Authorized exclusions. The attorney general or the secretary of State can forbid entry to anyone they consider to be
associated with a terrorist organization and who they determine will engage in activities that could endanger the welfare,
safety or security of the United States.
Terrorist activities. The law adds the use of explosives, firearms and other dangerous devices to the definition of
“terrorist activities.” It broadens the definition of “a terrorist engaging in terrorist activity” to include those who have
provided support to a group that they knew or should have known was engaged in terrorism, regardless of whether the
support provided was for a terrorist purpose. These are offenses that would keep someone out of the United States or
lead to deportation.
7/9/09 4:01 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal01-106-6376-328240&type=hitlist&num=19
Terrorist organization. The law creates a new definition of “terrorist organization” for use when determining whether to
admit foreigners to the United States or deport those already here. The term is defined as a group of two or more
individuals that the secretary of State determines is involved with terrorist activities. These provisions are retroactive for
any group that the secretary of State had previously listed as a terrorist organization.
Mandatory detention. The attorney general or the deputy attorney general can certify a foreigner as a terrorist if they
have reasonable grounds to believe that the person is a terrorist or has committed a terrorist activity. Those certified as
terrorists must be jailed.
The INS may detain suspected terrorists for seven days before bringing immigration or criminal charges against them.
Foreigners not charged within seven days must be released.
The law allows detainees to challenge the government's case against them, something called “habeas review.” All
habeas decisions are to be based on the legal principles articulated by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia and the Supreme Court. All appeals of habeas decisions will be heard by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia. Aliens who were ordered deported but remain in U.S. detention are entitled to have their cases
reviewed by the attorney general every six months. Continued detention is allowed only upon a showing that “the
release of the alien will endanger the national security of the United States or the safety of the community or any
person.”
The attorney general must submit a report to Congress on the use of this section every six months.
Visa information sharing. The secretary of State may give foreign governments information in the State Department's
computer database and other records on people seeking to enter the United States if that disclosure would help
prevent, investigate or punish acts of terrorism or trafficking in drugs, weapons or people.
Entry-exit system. The law authorizes “such sums as may be necessary” to implement an automated entry-exit data
system for the United States. The law includes a “sense of Congress” resolution saying the attorney general should fully
implement the entry-exit system as quickly as practicable, focusing in particular on the use of “biometric technology,”
such as fingerprint scanning devices, and the development of tamper-resistant documents.
Foreign students. The attorney general must implement a system to track foreign students in the United States. The
law makes $36.8 million available through Jan. 1, 2003, for the creation and implementation of the system.
Machine-readable passports. All countries that want to participate in the Visa Waiver Program must issue machine-
readable passports by Oct. 1, 2003. The deadline had been 2007. The secretary of State may extend this deadline for a
country that is making progress. The Visa Waiver Program allows citizens from a select group of mostly industrial
countries to come into the United States for short visits for either business or pleasure without having to get a visa. The
secretary of State must perform annual audits of those countries allowed to participate in the program.
Benefits for Aliens
Permanent residency status. The law grants permanent residency status to aliens whose sponsors died in the Sept.
11 attacks. Aliens who were disabled or lost their jobs as a direct result of the attacks also can be declared permanent
legal residents. Their children and spouses can become permanent legal residents if they come to the United States no
later than Sept. 11, 2003. The spouse or fiancé of a U.S. citizen killed in the Sept. 11 attacks also is eligible for
permanent resident status.
Disability extension. Aliens who are legally in the country and were disabled in the Sept. 11 attacks may remain in the
United States, along with their spouses and children, and get legal authorization to work for one year after the point
when they were disabled. Spouses and children of aliens who died in the terrorist attacks can get the same extension;
they must be admitted to the United States, even if they may require government assistance.
Extensions of deadlines. The law generally provides a grace period for aliens who missed any filing deadlines
because of the Sept. 11 attacks. For example, it gives an extra 60 days to aliens prevented from filing for an extension
of their stay, including those who were abroad at the time. Aliens who overstayed their time in the country because the
attacks prevented them from leaving are considered to have left legally if they departed before Nov. 11, 2001.
Waiver for some would-be immigrants. For aliens who were married to a citizen killed in the attacks, the law waives
the requirement that they be married for two years before they are eligible for immigrant status. If a permanent resident
killed in the attacks had filed papers to allow his or her spouse, child, or unmarried adult son or daughter to become a
legal permanent resident, those aliens are eligible for the residency. In addition, if an alien spouse, child, or unmarried
adult son or daughter of a permanent resident who died in the attacks was present in the United States on Sept. 11 but
had not yet applied for permanent residence, the alien can petition for permanent residence.
Broadens definition of child. The law lengthens the amount of time that aliens will be considered children for the
purposes of immigration law if they filed petitions on or before Sept. 11. It is easier for children to qualify for citizenship
than adults.
Humanitarian relief. For aliens not covered by the relief in this law, the attorney general may provide temporary
administrative relief for humanitarian purposes or to keep families together.
Prohibition for terrorists. None of this relief will be provided to anyone culpable for the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11 or
to any family member of such an individual.
7/9/09 4:01 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal01-106-6376-328240&type=hitlist&num=19
Investigating Terrorism
Increased rewards. There is no limit on the size of the rewards that the attorney general can offer to combat terrorism.
Rewards of $250,000 or more require the personal approval of the attorney general or president, as well as notice to
Congress. Rewards for help in investigating crimes other than terrorism are subject to budgetary caps. The secretary of
State can pay rewards for identifying and locating a terrorist organization. The maximum size of such rewards is
increased to $10 million. The secretary of State may raise that limit to $25 million if he or she believes it is in the
national interest. The law includes a sense of Congress that there should be a $25 million reward for information on
Osama bin Laden and other leaders of the Sept. 11 attacks.
DNA database. Those convicted of terrorism must provide DNA for inclusion in the federal DNA database of convicted
offenders.
Intelligence information sharing. Federal agents conducting foreign intelligence wiretaps may consult with law
enforcement officials to coordinate efforts to investigate or protect against international terrorism, clandestine intelligence
activities, or other hostile acts of a foreign power or an agent of a foreign power.
Financial information. The FBI director or a designee no lower than deputy assistant director may request telephone,
financial or credit records if he or she certifies that the information is relevant to an ongoing foreign counterintelligence
investigation and that there are “specific, articulable” facts showing that the person targeted is the agent of a foreign
power. An investigation of a U.S. citizen may not be based solely on activities protected by the First Amendment.
Secret Service jurisdiction. The Secret Service has concurrent jurisdiction with the Justice Department to investigate
offenses involving computer fraud and related activity. The law also gives the Secret Service the authority to investigate
fraud at financial institutions.
Education records. A court may release student education records if the attorney general or the Education secretary
determines that the records would reasonably assist in investigating or preventing an act of terrorism. The provision also
applies to information obtained by the National Center for Educational Statistics.
Victims Compensation
Paperwork eased. The law streamlines the Public Safety Officers Benefits Program application process for family
members of law enforcement officers, firefighters and emergency personnel who were killed or suffered serious injury in
the terrorist attacks. The law raises the total payment allowed under the Public Safety Officers Benefits Program to
$250,000, effective for any death or disability occurring on or after Jan. 1, 2001.
Victims of Crime fund. The Office for Victims of Crime is authorized to replenish the anti-terrorism emergency reserve
with as much as $50 million. The law establishes a mechanism for replenishing the fund in future years and replaces the
annual cap on the fund with a self-regulating system intended to keep the fund healthy. Private gifts to the fund are now
allowed, and the law increases the portion of the fund available for discretionary grants and assistance to victims of
federal crimes.
State programs. The law increases the minimum amount authorized for the annual grant to state compensation
programs. It clarifies that compensation paid to a victim shall not be used in means tests for federal benefit programs.
The law removes the requirement that state crime victim compensation programs include victims of terrorism occurring
outside the United States. States may give victims compensation funds to U.S. attorneys offices in jurisdictions where
the U.S. attorney is the local prosecutor.
Non-discrimination for victims. Victim assistance programs may not discriminate against victims who disagree with
the way the state is prosecuting the case. The law authorizes grants to eligible victim assistance programs for program
evaluation and compliance efforts, and it allows money to be used for fellowships, clinical internships and training
programs.
Governmental cooperation. The Department of Justice Regional Information Sharing Systems Program is expanded to
facilitate information sharing among federal, state and local law enforcement agencies to investigate and prosecute
terrorist conspiracies and activities. The law doubles the program's authorized funding for fiscal 2002–2003, authorizing
$50 million in fiscal 2002 and $100 million in fiscal 2003.
Changes in Criminal Law
Mass transit. The law makes it a federal crime to attack a mass transit system, punishable by a fine and as much as 20
years in prison. If the vehicle was carrying a passenger at the time of the attack, or if the attack killed someone, the
maximum sentence increases to life.
Domestic terrorism. The law defines “domestic terrorism” as activities that involve acts dangerous to human life that
are a violation of federal or state laws and that appear intended to intimidate or coerce a civilian population, change
government policy or affect the conduct of government by mass destruction, assassination or kidnaping, and that occur
primarily within the United States.
Harboring terrorists. The law makes it a federal crime for individuals to harbor a person who they know or should have
known was engaged in or would engage in terrorist activities.
7/9/09 4:01 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal01-106-6376-328240&type=hitlist&num=19
U.S. criminal jurisdiction. The law extends U.S. jurisdiction to offenses committed by or against a U.S. national, U.S.
diplomatic, consular and military missions, and residences used by U.S. personnel assigned to such missions.
Material support for terrorism. Three terrorism-related offenses are added to the list of those considered as providing
material support to a terrorist. These violations may be prosecuted in any federal judicial district in which the offense
was committed. The law explicitly prohibits providing terrorists with “expert advice or assistance,” such as flight training,
knowing or intending that it will be used to prepare for or carry out an act of terrorism.
U.S. forfeiture authority. U.S. forfeiture authority is extended to “all assets, foreign or domestic” that are owned or
controlled by any person or group planning or carrying out an act of terrorism against the United States, its citizens or
residents or their property.
Material support for terrorists. The law clarifies that the provisions of the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export
Enhancement Act of 2000 (PL 106–387, Title IX) do not limit or otherwise affect the criminal prohibitions against
providing material support to terrorists or designated terrorist organizations.
Crime of terrorism defined. The law adds the following as a list of offenses under the definition of “federal crime of
terrorism”: destruction of aircraft or aircraft facilities; violence at international airports; arson within special maritime and
territorial jurisdiction; offenses involving biological or chemical weapons; kidnapping or assassination of members of
Congress, the Cabinet or the Supreme Court; offenses involving nuclear materials or plastic explosives; arson and
bombing of government property risking or causing death; arson and bombing of property used in interstate commerce;
killing or attempted killing during an attack on a federal facility with a dangerous weapon; conspiracy to murder, kidnap,
or maim persons abroad; offenses against the protection of computers; killing or attempted killing of officers and
employees of the United States; murder or manslaughter of foreign officials, official guests, or internationally protected
persons; hostage taking; destruction of communication lines, stations, or systems; injury to buildings or property within
special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the United States; destruction of an energy facility; presidential and
presidential staff assassination and kidnapping; wrecking trains; terrorist attacks and other acts of violence against mass
transportation systems; destruction of national defense materials, premises, or utilities; violence against maritime
navigation; violence against maritime fixed platforms; certain homicides and other violence against United States
nationals occurring outside the United States; use of weapons of mass destruction; acts of terrorism transcending
national boundaries; harboring terrorists; providing material support to terrorists or terrorist organizations; torture;
sabotage of nuclear facilities or fuel; aircraft piracy; assault on a flight crew with a dangerous weapon, explosive or
incendiary devices or endangerment of human life by means of weapons on aircraft.
No statute of limitations. The law eliminates the statute of limitations for certain terrorism-related offenses if they result
in or create a foreseeable risk of death or serious bodily injury to another person.
Increased prison terms. The law raises the maximum prison terms to 15 to 20 years—or, if death results, life—for the
following crimes: arson within the special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the United States, destruction of an
energy facility, destruction of national-defense materials, provision of material support to terrorists and terrorist
organizations, sabotage of nuclear facilities or fuel, killings on aircraft, destruction of interstate gas or hazardous liquid
pipeline facility.
Conspiracy penalties. The law adds conspiracy provisions to the following criminal statutes: arson within special
maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the United States; killings in federal facilities; destruction of communications lines,
stations or systems; destruction of property within special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the United States;
wrecking trains; material support to terrorists; torture; sabotage of nuclear facilities or fuel; interference with flight crews;
carrying weapons or explosives on aircraft; and destruction of interstate gas or hazardous liquid pipeline facilities.
Supervised release. The law authorizes an extended period of supervised release for persons who have served their
prison sentence for certain terrorism-related offenses that resulted in, or created a foreseeable risk of, death or serious
bodily injury to another person.
Terrorism as racketeering. Certain terrorism-related offenses are included within the definition of “racketeering
activity.” This allows multiple acts of terrorism to be charged as a pattern of racketeering for purposes of the Racketeer
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations (RICO) statute, which can triple the damages imposed. The law expands the
ability of prosecutors to prosecute members of established, ongoing terrorist organizations.
Computer hacking. The criminal statute prohibiting computer hacking includes computers located outside the United
States when used in a manner that affects the interstate commerce or communications of the United States. The law
updates the definition of “loss” to ensure that the full costs to victims of hacking offenses are counted.
Forensic laboratories. The attorney general must establish regional computer forensic laboratories and support
existing computer forensic laboratories to help combat computer crime.
U.S. criminal jurisdiction. The biological weapons statute's definition of “for use as a weapon” is expanded to include
all situations in which it can be proven that the defendant had any purpose not prophylactic, protective, or peaceful.
Certain persons, including non-resident foreign nationals of countries that support international terrorism, are forbidden
to possess a listed biological agent or toxin.
Intelligence Changes
Foreign intelligence management. The law clarifies the role of the CIA director in managing the collection, analysis
and dissemination of foreign intelligence gathered under FISA. The CIA director must assist the attorney general in
ensuring that FISA investigations follow constitutional guidelines.
7/9/09 4:01 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 9 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal01-106-6376-328240&type=hitlist&num=19
Revised definitions. The definitions section of the National Security Act of 1947 (PL 253) is revised to include
international terrorism as a subset of “foreign intelligence,” clarifying the CIA director's responsibility for collecting foreign
intelligence related to international terrorism.
Informant recruitment. The law expresses the sense of Congress that the CIA should make efforts to recruit
informants to fight terrorism.
Reports deferred. The secretary of Defense, the attorney general and the CIA director may defer submitting certain
reports on intelligence activities to Congress until  Feb. 1, 2002.
Information sharing. Law enforcement agencies must notify intelligence agencies when a criminal investigation reveals
information of intelligence value. Constitutional and statutory prohibitions against certain types of information sharing still
apply.
Intelligence training. The attorney general, in consultation with the CIA director, must establish a program to train
federal, state and local officials in the recognition and appropriate handling of intelligence information discovered in the
normal course of their duties.
Miscellaneous
Civil rights oversight. The Justice Department's inspector general must designate one official to review information
and receive complaints alleging abuses of civil rights and civil liberties by employees and officials of the Department of
Justice.
Condemnation of discrimination. The law condemns discrimination and acts of violence against Sikh Americans, as
well as Arab and Muslim Americans.
Denial of admission for money laundering. Any alien who a consular officer or the attorney general knows, or has
reason to believe, is involved in a federal money-laundering offense is barred from the United States.
Biometric identifier. The attorney general must report to Congress on the feasibility of using a “biometric identifier”
system, with access to the FBI fingerprint database, at consular offices abroad and at points of entry into the United
States. Such devices scan fingerprints or other physical characteristics to check an individual's identity.
Suspect lists to airlines. The FBI must report to Congress on the feasibility of providing airlines with computer access
to the names of suspected terrorists.
Military installation security. The Defense Department has temporary authority to enter contracts with a state or local
government for the performance of security functions at any military installation or facility in the United States.
Charity telemarketing. Any telemarketer soliciting for charity must disclose to people they call that they are telephoning
to solicit charitable contributions, and make other disclosures that the Federal Trade Commission considers appropriate.
Hazardous materials background check. The Department of Transportation may check the background of any
individual applying for a license to transport hazardous materials in interstate commerce.
State and local bio-terrorism preparedness. The law expresses the sense of the Senate that the United States
should make a substantial new investment this year toward improving state and local preparedness to respond to
potential bio-terrorism attacks.
Terrorism grants. The law authorizes a Justice Department program to provide grants to states to prepare for and
respond to terrorist acts including, but not limited to, acts involving weapons of mass destruction and biological, nuclear,
radiological, incendiary, chemical and explosive devices.
The law revises this grant program to provide additional flexibility to purchase needed equipment; training and technical
assistance to state and local first responders; and a more equitable allocation of funds among the states. It also clarifies
that grants under the Crime Identification Technology Act can be used for anti-terrorism, and authorizes grants under
that act at $250 million a year through fiscal 2007. The law authorizes another $25 million annually from fiscal 2003
through fiscal 2007 for grants to state and local authorities to respond to and prevent acts of terrorism.
Infrastructure protection. The law establishes a National Infrastructure Simulation and Analysis Center to address
critical infrastructure protection and continuity through support for activities related to counterterrorism, threat
assessment and risk mitigation.
Severability. Any portion of this law found to be invalid or unenforceable shall be severable from the rest of the law.
Counterterrorism fund. The law creates a separate fund to reimburse the Justice Department and any other federal
agency for the costs of rebuilding facilities destroyed by terrorism or conducting counterterrorism investigations.
Technical support funding. The law authorizes $200 million in each of fiscal years 2002, 2003 and 2004 for the FBI's
Technical Support Center.
7/9/09 4:01 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 10 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal01-106-6376-328240&type=hitlist&num=19
Domestic military aid. The attorney general may call for military help in situations involving chemical weapons.
Electronic crimes task forces. The Secret Service may create a national network of electronic crimes task forces,
designed to prevent, detect and investigate electronic crimes, including possible terrorist attacks on the United States.
Property confiscation. The president may confiscate and vest properties of an enemy, defined as a country, person or
organization, when the United States is engaged in hostilities or has been the subject of an attack by that enemy.
Classified information may be used to defend this determination to a judge and may be kept secret from the property
owner.
Document Citation
"Provisions of the Anti-Terrorism Law." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal01-106-6376-328240.
Originally published in CQ Almanac 2001 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 2002).
http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal01-106-6376-328240 (accessed July 9, 2009).
Document ID: cqal01-106-6376-328240
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal01-106-6376-328240
© 2002, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
