7/3/09 1:15 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 8http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal94-1102916&type=hitlist&num=15
Banking
1998 Congress Clears Legislation
Allowing Credit Unions To Expand
Membership
1995 House Shelves Banking Overhaul
1994 Other Banking Legislation
Considered in 1994
1994 Community Development Banking
Provisions
1994 Banking Law Undergoes Revision
1991 Congress Clears Slimmed-Down
Banking Bill
1991 Banking Nominations
1988 Caught in Turf Battle, Bank
Powers Bill Dies
1986 Major Banking Legislation Stalls
in Last Hours
1985 Banking Bills Fail to Reach House
Floor
1979 Banking Deregulation
1978 Electronic Banking Services
1978 Banking Regulation
1976 Banking Changes Blocked
1975 Senate Approves Broader Banking
Powers
1974 Citicorp Notes
1974 Banking Insurance, Credit Bill
Cleared
1970 Regulation Extended to One-
Bank Holding Companies
1969 Bank Holding Companies
1967 Truth-In-Lending Bill Passed by
Senate
1966 Bank Supervision
1966 Bank Holding Company Act
Exemptions Changed
1965 Bank Investigation
1957 Banking Revision
1955 Bank Companies
Antitrust
Federal Reserve
Savings and Loan Industry
Stock Market and Financial Services
Community Development Banking Provisions
An article from CQ Almanac 1994
Document Outline
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
Home Equity Loan Abuses
Secondary Market For Small-Business Loans
Paperwork Reduction and Regulatory Burden Relief
Money Laundering
Flood Insurance
The community development banking bill (HR 3474 — PL 103 - 325 )
created the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund to provide
matching grants and other aid to community development banks, credit unions
and loan funds that made loans in inner cities and poor rural areas generally
underserved by traditional banks.
The bill also included a number of “regulatory relief” provisions sought by
banks, as well as language to curb abusive home equity lending practices,
boost the private sector market in small-business and commercial real estate
loans and shore up the federal flood insurance program.
As enacted, PL 103 - 325 contained provisions to:
Community Development Financial Institutions
Fund
CDFI Fund. Establish a Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI)
Fund, a wholly owned government corporation, to provide financial and
technical assistance to CDFIs. To be eligible for assistance, CDFIs had to
have community development as their primary mission, serve communities in
need of economic assistance and provide development services to
complement their lending activities. State and local government agencies
were not eligible.
The CDFI Fund was authorized to receive up to $382 million in appropriations
over fiscal 1995-98. (For fiscal 1995-96, appropriators provided a total of $125
million in the fiscal 1995 VA-HUD appropriations bill.)
The new fund was to be managed by an administrator and overseen by a 15-
person board, whose membership was to include several Cabinet secretaries,
the administrator of the Small Business Administration and nine private
citizens with community development experience.
The fund was to provide several forms of financial assistance, including equity
investments, grants, loans, credit union shares and deposits. It also could
provide technical assistance and establish a training program.
No CDFI could receive more than $5 million in aid over any three-year period, though an exception could be made for
an institution that sought to establish a subsidiary or affiliate in another state.
Institutions receiving federal assistance had to match federal moneys on a $1-to-$1 basis, though the matching
requirements could be waived for CDFIs that were particularly cash-strapped. No more than 25 percent of total
assistance provided by the fund in any year could be provided on a non-matching basis. To receive assistance, CDFIs
were required to enter into an agreement with the fund that specified terms and conditions of assistance and set
performance goals.
To receive assistance, CDFIs were required to prepare a comprehensive strategic plan and detail that plan to secure
matching funds. In addition, each CDFI was required to maintain accurate records of its activities, the communities it
served, who benefited from its services and how successfully it was carrying out its strategic plan. The fund was to
review how well each CDFI implemented its strategic plan and lived up to its assistance agreement.
Each CDFI receiving assistance was required to issue an annual report to the fund.
 
7/3/09 1:15 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 8http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal94-1102916&type=hitlist&num=15
Community partnerships. Allow community development financial institutions to form “community partnerships” with
mainstream banks and bank holding companies, credit unions, nonprofit organizations, state or local government
agencies, and investment companies. A community partnership was defined as an agreement between a CDFI and a
mainstream institution to provide development services, loans or investments in an under developed area. These
combinations were eligible for federal assistance, though any federal funds could be disbursed only to the CDFI.
The idea behind these community partnerships was to bolster collaboration between CDFIs and other institutions and to
have the limited federal funds help leverage private money into community development.
Bank Enterprise Act. Provide a financing mechanism for the Bank Enterprise Act (BEA), which was designed to give
incentives to mainstream banks and thrifts to make loans and provide banking services in distressed communities.
One-third of the money appropriated to the CDFI fund, up to $127 million, was to finance cash rebates to banks under
the Bank Enterprise Act program.
The aim of the BEA program, originally established in a 1991 bill (PL 102-242), was to use federal money to leverage
private capital into underdeveloped communities; the administrator of the federal CDFI fund also was to oversee BEA-
related activities. But Congress had never appropriated money to implement the law.
To receive a rebate, banks and thrifts had to apply to the fund. The administrator was required to rank the applicants
according to several criteria, foremost being the extent to which they made equity investments in CDFIs.
Other criteria included the extent to which a bank made loans in distressed neighborhoods, participated in community
development ventures and provided basic banking services. Insured CDFIs were to have an advantage in the
competition for the BEA rebates.
The administrator was given broad discretion over BEA program activities and was directed to ensure that, to the
maximum extent practicable, BEA rebates supported the activities of CDFIs.
Performance report. Require the General Accounting Office (GAO), the investigative arm of Congress, to issue a
progress report on the CDFI program 30 months after the CDFI administrator was named.
Credit unions. Authorize additional appropriations of $10 million over fiscal 1995-98 for the Community Development
Credit Union Revolving Loan Fund, an existing fund operated by the National Credit Union Administration.
Home Equity Loan Abuses
'Reverse redlining.' Curb the practice of “reverse redlining,“ in which non-bank lenders targeted low- and moderate-
income homeowners, minorities and the elderly for home equity loans on abusive terms. Typically, such second
mortgages had large upfront fees and high interest rates. Repayment terms could be such that homeowners were
unable to keep up and ended up losing their homes.
The bill required several new disclosure requirements for such high-cost loans to give consumers a better
understanding of their terms, including a warning that people could lose their homes if they defaulted.
The measure amended the Truth in Lending Act (PL 101-73), a 1989 law that required uniform loan terms and
disclosures, to provide additional disclosures for high-cost mortgage loans. Such loans were defined as loans with
interest rates higher than 10 percentage points over comparable Treasury securities (the Federal Reserve could adjust
this requirement after September 1996) or transactions in which upfront points and fees totaled more than 8 percent of
the loan, or $400, whichever was greater.
Such loans were not barred, but creditors (such as finance and mortgage companies) were required to provide
borrowers with a special, simplified disclosure notice three days before settlement.
The creditor was required to disclose that the consumer could lose his/her home for failure to meet the terms of the loan
and that the person still had time to back away from the loan. In addition, the lender had to reveal the annual
percentage rate of the loan and what the monthly payments would be.
If a high-cost mortgage (as defined by the law) was made without the required disclosures, the borrower would have
three years to rescind the transaction.
Prohibited practices. Ban several high-cost mortgage lending practices. Consumers had the right to rescind any loan
(which met the criteria for a high-cost mortgage loan as defined by the bill) that included the following terms or practices:
Prepayment penalties. Such loans could not contain prepayment penalties. However, the prohibition applied only to
cases in which consumers were carrying heavy debt burdens (a 50 percent debt-to-income ratio, including the loan in
question). Prepayment penalties had been used to trap borrowers in abusive mortgages by making it prohibitively
expensive to pay off their loans early.
Limitations after default. Creditors could not charge a higher interest rate after a borrower defaulted than the rate prior
to default.
Balloon payments. High end-of-loan balloon payments — which often misled borrowers by making the loan appear less
expensive than it really was — generally were barred when the length of the loan was less than five years.
Negative amortization. Negative amortization, which occurred when monthly loan payments did not cover the interest
due, was barred. Previously, under such terms, the amount owed grew over the life of the loan.
7/3/09 1:15 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 8http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal94-1102916&type=hitlist&num=15
due, was barred. Previously, under such terms, the amount owed grew over the life of the loan.
Prepaid payments. Prepaid payments — periodic loan payments that were consolidated and paid in advance from loan
proceeds that otherwise would have gone to the borrower — also were barred.
Disregard of ability to pay. Creditors could not extend high-cost mortgage loans unless they had given consideration
to a consumer's ability to repay the loans. In determining the ability to pay, creditors were required to evaluate existing
or expected income, existing obligations, repayment capacity or employment.
Payments to contractors. Loan proceeds could not be given directly to home improvement contractors, though they
could be extended jointly to the borrower and a contractor.
The Federal Reserve retained flexibility to exempt certain mortgage loans from these prohibitions if it determined the
exemption to be in the public interest — for example, in the case of certain short-term construction loans that might be
covered by the measure. On the other hand, the Federal Reserve was required to prohibit acts and practices that it
found unfair, deceptive and aimed at evading the restrictions of the bill.
Civil liability. Borrowers were given the right to sue creditors who failed to provide adequate disclosures or made loans
on prohibited terms. Such civil liability was to equal all finance charges and fees paid by the consumer.
State attorneys general had the right to bring actions in federal district courts to enforce the anti-reverse redlining
provisions of the bill for up to three years after violations occurred. This provision was designed to strengthen regulation
of finance companies, which were only loosely regulated by the federal government under existing law. The state had to
notify the appropriate federal agency responsible for enforcement, and the agency had the right to intervene.
Purchaser liability. Purchasers of high-cost mortgage loans were subject to any claims that could be raised against the
original lender. This provision sought to curb the secondary market in abusive mortgage loans by making them less
desirable to purchase. Any seller of a high-cost mortgage was required to provide a notice of potential liability to the
purchaser.
Secondary Market For Small-Business Loans
Secondary market. Relax capital requirements and other regulations to encourage the private sector secondary market
for small-business loans. The idea was to encourage banks to make loans to small businesses by making it easier for
them to turn around and sell the loans to Wall Street investment firms, which would package them into securities backed
by the loans.
The measure removed impediments in existing law that blocked securitization of small-business loans and leases. A
new class of “small-business related securities” was created.
The provision was based on the Secondary Mortgage Market Enhancement Act of 1984 (PL 98-440), which had helped
pump money into the housing market by removing regulatory impediments to a private sector secondary market in home
mortgages.
Securities laws governing margin and securities delivery requirements were eased to permit issuers more time to pool
and sell small-business related securities.
Small-business securities were considered acceptable investments for banks, thrifts and credit unions, though
regulators were authorized to issue rules to ensure safety and soundness of the institution. State and local
governments also were authorized to invest in small-business related securities.
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) securities registration rules were relaxed to permit issuers of small-
business securities to file a single registration form with the SEC rather than separate ones with each state.
Capital requirements. Change existing regulations that required banks to maintain capital reserves against loans they
sold.
(When an institution sold a loan, purchasers usually insisted that the bank retain part of the risk and remain responsible
for part of the loan should a borrower default. This was known as selling a loan with “recourse.“ Under existing rules,
banks had to hold 8 percent capital on the total amount of a loan, even if they sold almost all of it.)
The bill changed recourse rules so that banks had to maintain capital reserves only against the portion of loan risk they
retained. Only well-capitalized banks were eligible to take advantage of the new rules. The total amount of recourse
retained by an institution was limited to 15 percent of the institution's risk-based capital reserves, though regulators were
given flexibility to increase the limit.
Commercial real estate loan securitization. In a provision added during Senate floor consideration of the bill and
modified in conference, similar regulatory treatment was given to “commercial mortgage related securities.“ In essence,
the regulatory benefits provided under the Secondary Mortgage Market Enhancement Act to home mortgages (and,
under this bill,  to small-business related securities) also were accorded to securities derived from commercial real estate
loans. This provision was designed to shore up the troubled commercial real estate market.
However, the new capital rules that applied to small-business loans regarding recourse on sold loans did not apply to
commercial real estate loans.
Impact study. Direct the Federal Reserve and the SEC to study the impact of small-business and commercial real
estate loan securitization on the credit and securities markets. The study was to evaluate the impact of these provisions
7/3/09 1:15 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 8http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal94-1102916&type=hitlist&num=15
estate loan securitization on the credit and securities markets. The study was to evaluate the impact of these provisions
on business and commercial credit, especially on firms in low- and moderate- income areas, minority- and women-
owned businesses, community development programs and community development financial institutions. The study also
was to focus on the markets that evolved for securities backed by small business and commercial real estate loans.
Capital access program. Authorize $50 million to provide federal grants to state capital access programs. Such
programs encouraged banks to make small-business loans that were somewhat riskier than conventional commercial
loans, without posing a threat to the safety and soundness of the bank. In a capital access program, banks, borrowers
and states contributed to a loss reserve fund that covered losses from loans made under the program.
The administrator of the new federal Community Development Financial Institutions Fund was to run the program.
Paperwork Reduction and Regulatory Burden Relief
The bill contained more than 50 provisions to reduce bank regulatory burden and paperwork requirements
established under recent banking laws. Obtaining this “regulatory relief” was a top priority for bank and thrift
lobbyists during the 103rd Congress.
These included provisions to:
Regulatory burden evaluation. Require bank regulators to consider the burdens and benefits of new banking
regulations, especially on smaller banks. New regulations were to take effect on the first day of a calendar quarter.
Streamlining regulations. Require each federal banking regulator to review and streamline its regulations within two
years and eliminate inconsistent, outmoded or duplicative rules. When different regulatory agencies enforced the same
laws, they were required to implement the rules in a uniform fashion.
Duplicative filings. Require bank regulators to work together to curb duplicative reporting requirements.
Coordinated examinations. Require regulators to coordinate their examinations and, within two years, create a system
in which one regulator would take the lead in a unified examination of a bank or thrift and its affiliates.
18-month examinations. Raise the asset threshold for eligibility for an 18-month exam cycle from $100 million to $250
million for well-capitalized and well-managed institutions with “outstanding” CAMEL ratings. (CAMEL was an acronym
that stood for capital adequacy, asset quality, management, earnings and liquidity; essentially it was a composite rating
that signified how strong a bank was.) Existing law required on-site examinations of insured depository institutions every
12 months.
The 18-month exception was broadened to apply to institutions with “good” CAMEL ratings and assets of less than $100
million. After two years, the asset cap could be raised to $175 million for such institutions.
Call report simplification. Direct banking agencies to develop a single report of condition (call report) for the filing of
core information to regulators. Banks also were permitted to file call reports electronically, and the public was to have
electronic access to the information. Banks no longer were required to publish condition reports in local newspapers.
Appeals process. Require all federal banking agencies and the National Credit Union Administration Board within six
months to establish an internal process under which the financial institutions they regulated could appeal regulatory
decisions. Each regulator was required to create an ombudsman's office and develop a pilot program to encourage
alternative ways such as mediation and arbitration to resolve disputes between institutions and regulators.
Currency transaction reports. Permit banks and thrifts to file currency transaction reports (which detailed cash
transactions of $10,000 or more) by electronic means.
RESPA exemptions. Exempt residential real estate loans for business purposes from coverage under the Real Estate
Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA), which required extensive paperwork disclosures at settlement. Also, RESPA
mortgage disclosure requirements were modified to require that lenders provide a statement indicating whether the bank
had sold loans in the past, rather than an analysis of the percentage of loans sold, as required under existing law.
Local boards of directors. Require that a majority, rather than two-thirds, of the board of directors of a federally
chartered bank reside in the area in which the bank was located.
Audit requirements. Allow banks and thrifts with total assets of more than $9 billion and CAMEL ratings of 1 or 2 that
were subsidiaries of holding companies to meet independent audit requirements at the holding company level.
Real estate appraisals. Encourage states to enter into reciprocity agreements so that appraisers licensed or certified
by one state could perform appraisals in other states. States could not impose excessive fees or burdensome
requirements on out-of-state appraisers engaged in temporary practice.
Bank holding company formation. Simplify procedures for forming a bank holding company from a stand-alone bank.
Instead of a full application, such reorganizations could be approved after filing a 30-day notice. The formation of certain
bank holding companies was exempted from securities registration requirements.
Bankers’ banks. Modify regulations to make it easier for banks to invest in so-called bankers’ banks — insured banks
entirely owned by, and dedicated to providing services to, other banks. Federally chartered thrifts also were permitted to
7/3/09 1:15 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 8http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal94-1102916&type=hitlist&num=15
entirely owned by, and dedicated to providing services to, other banks. Federally chartered thrifts also were permitted to
invest in bankers’ banks.
Credit card receivables. Allow the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) to waive the right to repudiate, at a
later date, an institution's sale of its credit card accounts receivable. (Without such authority, the FDIC could be forced to
repudiate such sales by banks that subsequently went into receivership, a situation that had created legal uncertainties
for buyers and sellers of such receivables.)
Liability on foreign accounts. Provide that domestic banks were not required to repay deposits made at foreign
branches in cases of a sovereign action by that country or in cases of war, insurrection or civil strife.
Capital standards study. Require the Treasury Department to conduct a study of the effect of risk-based capital
standards on the safety and soundness of insured depository institutions, economic growth and the availability of credit,
particularly for individuals and small businesses.
Interest on reserves. Require the Federal Reserve to study the monetary policy and banking implications of whether
financial institutions should receive interest on cash reserves kept at the Fed. The Office of Management and Budget
and the Congressional Budget Office were to report on the budgetary impact of such interest payments.
Consumer credit study. Require the Treasury Department to conduct a study of ways to streamline the consumer
lending process.
Regulatory autonomy. Clarify the degree of autonomy of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and the
Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS) as bureaus of the Treasury Department. The OCC and the OTS were responsible for
supervising and regulating national banks and thrift institutions, which held nearly two-thirds of the total assets in U.S.
depository institutions.
Regulations developed by the OCC and the OTS no longer were to be subject to Treasury Department review or
clearance. The FDIC, OCC and Federal Reserve were also authorized to conduct litigation through their own attorneys.
Check hold study. Require the Federal Reserve to study whether the existing one-day hold on local checks under the
Expedited Funds Availability Act should be extended to two days as a means to combat check fraud.
Insider lending. Permit institutions to make a loan to a bank officer without prior approval of the board of directors,
provided the loan was secured by the insider borrower's residence. Such loans remained subject to the individual and
aggregate insider lending limits. The Federal Reserve also was permitted to exempt officers and directors of non-bank
subsidiaries (who were not involved in bank policy-making) from insider lending limits.
Risk-based capital. Require regulators to ensure that any revisions to risk-based capital standards take into account
the size and activities of the institutions and not cause undue reporting burdens.
Radio advertising. Streamline truth-in-lending requirements for radio advertising to permit radio advertisers to reduce
the amount of information that had to be disclosed. Additional information would have to be made available through use
of a toll-free telephone number.
Management interlocks. Allow individuals who served on boards of directors of more than one bank to apply for a five-
year extension of rules barring such “management interlocks.“ Some individuals had been “grandfathered” repeatedly
since laws barring such interlocks took effect in 1978.
Fair Credit Reporting Act amendments. Require credit bureaus to disclose to consumers more specific information
(dates, original payees and amounts) of any checks that formed the foundation for a negative characterization of a
consumer.
Non-federally insured institutions. Ease rules that required non-federally insured institutions to obtain written
customer acknowledgment that they knew the institution was not federally insured. In cases of existing customers of the
institution, the requirement could be met through mailed notices to the depositor.
Data bank feasibility study. Require the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council to study the feasibility of
creating a data bank for depository institution reports.
Application deadlines. Require banking regulators to complete action on bank applications within one year of receipt.
Right of rescission. Direct the Federal Reserve Board to study whether waiving or modifying a consumer's right to
rescind a loan within three days — only in cases of loan transactions involving a refinancing or consolidation of existing
loans — would benefit consumers.
Non-banking activities. Replace the existing application process for bank holding companies to engage in non-
banking activities with a 60-day-notice procedure. The provision was aimed at simplifying and speeding up the approval
process.
State examinations. Require the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council to develop standards for state
examinations of banks that were also subject to federal exams. Under a provision of the 1991 deposit insurance
overhaul law, which required annual bank exams, the federal banking agencies (the FDIC and the Federal Reserve
system) could alternate responsibility for such annual examinations. The provision was aimed at spurring federal
7/3/09 1:15 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 8http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal94-1102916&type=hitlist&num=15
system) could alternate responsibility for such annual examinations. The provision was aimed at spurring federal
regulators to allow state authorities to conduct the alternating examinations by establishing federal guidelines for such
exams.
Revision of recourse rules. Require all federal bank regulators to review and revise their regulations and policies
regarding loans sold with recourse.
(Recourse occurred when the institution that originally made the loan sold the loan but retained a portion of the
responsibility should the borrower default. Bank representatives said existing recourse rules were too stringent because
they required banks to hold capital against the entire amount of a loan sold with recourse, even if they had sold almost
the entire loan.)
The bill required that financial institutions hold capital only to the amount of retained risk of loans sold with recourse. For
example, existing rules required banks to hold 8 percent capital on the total amount of a loan. If the bank retained
recourse of only 5 percent, it would be required to retain 5 percent in capital reserves.
Bank regulators could permit institutions to hold less capital than the amount at risk in appropriate situations.
Money Laundering
Currency transaction reports. Require the Treasury Department to develop ways to substantially reduce (by 30
percent) the number of currency transaction reports (CTRs) filed by depository institutions under the Bank Secrecy Act.
Generally, CTRs had to be filed for every cash transaction of $10,000 or more. This reduction in paperwork was to be
accomplished by exempting routine cash transactions between banks and their customers from CTR filing requirements.
Exemptions. Require the Treasury Department to exempt the following from CTR filing requirements:
Transactions between depository institutions.
Bank transactions with federal, state and local governments, as well as quasi-governmental entities.
Transactions between depository institutions and businesses where the CTRs had little or no value for law enforcement
purposes.
Treasury also was given discretion to exempt transactions between depository institutions and their qualified business
customers, though such customers had to be approved by the department.
Civil penalties. Allow Treasury to delegate authority to assess civil penalties for violations of the Bank Security Act to
the appropriate federal bank regulator. (Treasury's Office of Financial Enforcement had such authority, but it had been
criticized for failing to process cases in a timely manner.)
State exemptions. Permit the Treasury Department to exempt classes of transactions within a state from Bank Security
Act reporting requirements should those transactions fall under state requirements that were substantially similar to
federal ones. This could apply, for example, to state-regulated casinos.
Money transmitters. Require check cashing companies, currency exchanges and other so-called money transmitters
to register with the Treasury Department as a way to curb money laundering by entities outside the regulated financial
services sector. The aim of the provision was to promote Treasury Department enforcement of money laundering laws
and to better educate money transmitters about their responsibilities under the law.
The bill expressed the sense of Congress that states should adopt uniform laws to license and regulate money
transmitting businesses.
Ratzlaf decision. Respond to a recent Supreme Court decision. Ratzlaf v. U.S., which required that the government
prove that a defendant not only tried to evade reporting requirements for large currency transactions but also knew such
conduct to be against the law. The provision removed the requirement, established by the court, that the government
prove that the defendant knew his or her conduct was illegal.
Flood Insurance
The bill contained several provisions to shore up the National Flood Insurance Program, which was established in
1968 to provide federal flood insurance (often at subsidized rates) for homes and businesses. The program, which
was run by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), had faced repeated funding shortfalls resulting
from two major problems: Many homeowners who lived in designated flood areas did not regularly buy flood
insurance, and those who did tended to live in the most flood-prone areas. The program required a $1.2 billion
bailout in the mid-1980s. Only about 17 percent of residents of designated flood hazard areas had flood insurance,
which under existing law was supposed to be purchased when financing or refinancing a home.
The bill included provisions to:
Compliance. Ensure that homeowners who should have flood insurance, as required under existing law, obtained and
maintained it. The increased compliance and participation in the program was designed to provide additional premiums
to the flood insurance fund and shield the federal government from a potential bailout — while protecting possible flood
7/3/09 1:15 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 8http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal94-1102916&type=hitlist&num=15
to the flood insurance fund and shield the federal government from a potential bailout — while protecting possible flood
victims.
Under existing law, banks, thrifts and others who issued mortgages were supposed to require the purchase of flood
insurance at origination (or at a later date if the loan was extended or renewed) if the property was in an area that had
special flood hazards. However, there was no specific sanction for violations of the law.
To increase participation in the program, the bill required lenders and companies that serviced mortgages to escrow
flood insurance premiums if they maintained an escrow account for the loan for any other purpose.
To increase compliance with mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements, the bill made it the responsibility of
mortgage lenders (and government-sponsored enterprises such as the Federal National Mortgage Association, or
Fannie Mae) to ensure obeyance.
Federally regulated lending institutions, including banks, savings and loans, and credit unions, were barred from making
or refinancing loans on any structure located in a special flood hazard area unless flood insurance was purchased and
maintained for the term of the loan. Exception was made for loans of less than $5,000 with repayment terms of one year
or less.
Lenders who demonstrated a “pattern or practice” of non-compliance with flood insurance purchase or notification
requirements could be fined by federal regulators up to $350 per loan, to a maximum of $100,000.
Fannie Mae and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac) — government-sponsored enterprises
that purchased mortgages — were required to put in place procedures to ensure that any loan they purchased that was
required to have flood insurance was indeed covered by a policy.
Force placement. Require lenders and loan servicers to force-place insurance if borrowers who were required by law
to purchase it had not done so. If a lender determined that flood insurance had to be purchased, it was required to notify
the borrower, who had 45 days to purchase it. If the borrower failed to buy insurance within that time, the lender would
have to buy the insurance on the borrower's behalf.
Notice requirements. Require lenders to notify borrowers when property being financed was located in a flood hazard
area; such notices had to include the fact that borrowers were required to purchase flood insurance, either through the
federal program or through private insurers.
Community rating system. Codify an existing Community Rating System Program administered by FEMA. The
program provided incentives, through reduced insurance premiums, to communities that voluntarily adopted and
enforced measures to reduce flood risks that exceeded FEMA standards.
Flood risk mitigation. Establish a new National Flood Mitigation Fund, financed by premiums paid to the National Flood
Insurance Fund, to provide grants to state and local governments for projects and other programs designed to reduce
potential flood damage. All projects had to be technically feasible and cost-beneficial.
Such projects could include minor mitigation efforts such as flood-proofing sewers, installing or improving floodgates,
retention ponds, drain pipes and pumping stations. Major flood control projects such as dikes, levees and seawalls were
not eligible.
No mitigation grant could be made to a state or community without an approved mitigation plan. FEMA was directed to
approve only those plans that were the most cost-effective, meaning that the money drawn from the fund for flood
mitigation projects would in effect be paid back because of fewer claims filed.
Total grants from the mitigation fund were capped at $15 million in fiscal 1995 and $20 million thereafter.
Task forces. Establish two flood insurance task forces: the Flood Insurance Interagency Task Force and the task force
on the Natural and Beneficial Functions of the Floodplain.
The Flood Insurance Interagency Task Force, with 10 members from federal agencies and private businesses, was
directed to recommend standardized procedures to improve enforcement of flood insurance requirements, as well as
ways for federal agencies and the secondary market in mortgage loans to improve compliance.
The task force on the Natural and Beneficial Functions of the Floodplain was to be manned by several federal agencies,
including FEMA, the under secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere, the director of the United States Fish
and Wildlife Service, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and the secretary of the Army. The task
force was directed to study the natural functions of flood plains that reduced flood losses and make recommendations
on how to further reduce flood losses through the protection of flood plains.
Flood maps. Require FEMA to review every five years, and update if necessary, federal maps of flood plains and flood-
risk areas. Any changes to federal flood maps (including additions and removals of flood hazard designations that
affected flood insurance requirements) had to be published in the Federal Register or some other comparable
publication. New flood maps and a compilation of flood map changes were to be made available to bank regulators,
state and local governments and the public. The bill established a Technical Mapping Environmental Council of federal,
state and private mapping experts to advise FEMA on ways to improve flood mapping and provide an evaluation of
FEMA mapping efforts.
Erosion hazards study. Direct FEMA to hire an independent entity to conduct a study on the effect of erosion,
particularly of coastlines, on the federal flood insurance program. Critics of the flood insurance program said that in
effect it subsidized the building of homes and other structures on coastal lands that eroded easily or on lake shores and
flood plains that were subject to repeated flooding. Claims in such cases far exceeded the premiums paid on the
policies.
Earlier versions of the bill contained a provision that would have eliminated federal insurance for building on lands that
eroded easily. But the provision was blocked by representatives from coastal states.
7/3/09 1:15 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 8http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal94-1102916&type=hitlist&num=15
The study was to determine how much in flood insurance claims was attributable to erosion, as well as the economic
impact of denying flood insurance in such communities or making it available at market rates. FEMA also was to study
the economic effects of increasing premiums on coastal building that were built prior to the imposition of more stringent
building standards in 1975. Insurance claims on such structures exceeded premium income by $668 million over 1978-
92.
Effective date of policies. Establish that new contracts for flood insurance would not become effective for 30 days
after purchase. This provision came in response to reports that some victims of the 1993 floods in the Midwest bought
flood insurance only when flooding was imminent. An exemption was provided when a homeowner was financing or
refinancing a loan or if coverage was purchased within one year of a remapping or map revision.
Agricultural structures. Exempt agricultural structures that were substantially damaged by flood from the law's building
requirements under the act if they were assessed market (actuarial) rates and were no longer eligible for federal disaster
assistance.
Prohibited flood disaster assistance. Establish that any building that was supposed to have flood insurance and
received federal disaster assistance after a flood would not be eligible to receive disaster assistance a second time.
Document Citation
"Community Development Banking Provisions." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal94-1102916.
Originally published in CQ Almanac 1994 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1995).
http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal94-1102916 (accessed July 3, 2009).
Document ID: cqal94-1102916
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal94-1102916
© 1995, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
