7/3/09 1:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal94-1102892&type=hitlist&num=2
Banking
1998 Congress Clears Legislation
Allowing Credit Unions To Expand
Membership
1995 House Shelves Banking Overhaul
1994 Other Banking Legislation
Considered in 1994
1994 Community Development Banking
Provisions
1994 Banking Law Undergoes Revision
1991 Congress Clears Slimmed-Down
Banking Bill
1991 Banking Nominations
1988 Caught in Turf Battle, Bank
Powers Bill Dies
1986 Major Banking Legislation Stalls
in Last Hours
1985 Banking Bills Fail to Reach House
Floor
1979 Banking Deregulation
1978 Electronic Banking Services
1978 Banking Regulation
1976 Banking Changes Blocked
1975 Senate Approves Broader Banking
Powers
1974 Citicorp Notes
1974 Banking Insurance, Credit Bill
Cleared
1970 Regulation Extended to One-
Bank Holding Companies
1969 Bank Holding Companies
1967 Truth-In-Lending Bill Passed by
Senate
1966 Bank Supervision
1966 Bank Holding Company Act
Exemptions Changed
1965 Bank Investigation
1957 Banking Revision
1955 Bank Companies
Antitrust
Federal Reserve
Savings and Loan Industry
Stock Market and Financial Services
Boxscore
Interstate Banking and Branching —
HR 3841 (S 1963). The bill allowed banks
to open branch offices nationwide and
allowed interstate bank ownership.
Reports: H Rept 103 -448, S Rept 
103 -240; conference report H Rept 
103 -651.
KEY ACTION
March 22 — House passed HR 3841 by
voice vote.
April 26 — Senate passed HR 3841 by
voice vote after substituting text of S
1963.
Aug. 4 — House adopted the conference
report by voice vote.
Sept. 13 — Senate cleared the bill, 94-4.
Sept. 29 — President signed HR 3841 —
PL 103 - 328 .
Banking Law Undergoes Revision
An article from CQ Almanac 1994
Document Outline
Key Provisions
Background
House Action
House Floor
Senate Action
Conference
Final Action
Features
In a major and long-sought victory for the nation's large banks, Congress in
1994 completed a significant rewrite of the nation's banking law.
The bill (HR 3841), cleared Sept. 13, allowed banks to set up branch offices
nationwide — by consolidating existing subsidiaries, buying existing banks or
in some cases, establishing new banks. It also removed the few remaining
barriers to interstate bank ownership.
President Clinton signed the bill into law on Sept. 29 (PL 103 - 328 ).
The action capped years of
lobbying by the nation's
largest banking companies,
which wanted the freedom to
open branch networks across
state lines without having to
set up separately capitalized
subsidiary banks as required
under existing law.
Under the new law, super-
regional banks such as North
Carolina's NationsBank Corp.
and California-based Bank
America Corp. would be able
to expand their operations
nationwide. Banking experts
said the result would be a
more efficient and profitable
banking industry and a
continued streamlining of the
nation's 10,700 banks. Some
big banks estimated that they
could save up to $50 million
per year in reduced
overhead costs.
Industry sources predicted that much of the cost savings would be
passed on to consumers as banks jockeyed for position in the new
nationwide market.
They also said bank service would improve as consumers and business customers were able to make deposits and
conduct banking transactions beyond their home states. It was also hoped that geographic diversity would help
insulate banks from regional economic slumps.
The changes, to be in place by 1997, were expected to create pressure on middle-tier banks, as the super-regional
banks expanded nationwide. Small banks, however, were expected to survive quite well within the niches they had
carved out in particular communities.
 
7/3/09 1:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal94-1102892&type=hitlist&num=2
Consumer groups and many smaller banks had long expressed concern that interstate branching would lead to too
much concentration in the banking industry, but their concerns were far outweighed by a sense, inside Congress
and out, that interstate banking and branching was a concept whose time had come. Consumer advocates
continued to worry, however, that huge nationwide banks would reduce lending and banking services in the inner
cities and poor rural areas that were less profitable for them.
Congress considered the measure in tandem with a bill designed to aid the formation of community development
lending institutions (HR 3474 — PL 103 -325), which cleared Aug. 9. The linkage between the two bills reflected
a political reality in the 103rd Congress: Democrats had made it clear that they would not approve the banks’ goal
of interstate branching until Congress helped Clinton fulfill  his pledge to boost community lending. (Community
development lending, p. 100)
Key Provisions
Under the bill, the few remaining obstacles to interstate purchases of whole banks were to be lifted one year after
enactment. Under existing law, such purchases were allowed in every state but Hawaii, though they were limited
along regional lines by about a dozen states, mainly in the Southeast.
The branching provisions allowed multistate bank holding companies to merge their subsidiary banks into branches
of a single bank, starting June 1, 1997, provided that banking regulators certified that the consolidation met capital
standards and state and nationwide concentration limits. In addition, regulators were to take into account whether
the applicant had complied with community lending and service requirements.
States that wanted to permit such mergers before mid-1997 could enact laws to do so; states that wanted to “opt
out” of interstate branching had to enact laws to block it.
In a victory for the little banks, so-called de novo branching — allowing banks to branch across state lines without
acquiring and converting an existing bank — was allowed only in states that “opted in” by enacting laws to permit
such branching. Otherwise, extending branch networks into new states required the purchase of an out-of-state
bank. (Provisions, p. 96)
Background
Almost every state allowed interstate banking, in which out-of-state holding companies owned separately chartered
and capitalized banks within their borders, subject to each state's banking laws. But interstate branching — allowing
an out-of-state bank to open a deposit-taking branch without setting up an in-state bank — essentially was
prohibited.
The last big congressional debate over interstate branching had taken place in 1991, when Congress took up a bill
to overhaul deposit insurance. The Bush administration pushed hard for branching, the Senate included it in its
version of the deposit-insurance bill, and the House voted 366-4 in favor of an amendment containing an interstate
proposal. However, the branching provisions were linked to a controversial proposal, vehemently opposed by banks,
to roll back banks’ ability to sell insurance. Caught in the congressional crossfire, branching was dropped in
conference. (1991 Almanac, p. 75)
Getting Started
The bill advanced in fits and starts over the course of the 103rd Congress. Members of the Banking committees
were eager to move ahead with the reforms in 1993, but the Clinton administration was slow to embrace them.
When the administration did support the idea in October of 1993, it made it clear that it was not willing to invest
much political capital toward advancing the effort.
The biggest stumbling block continued to be the powerful insurance agents’ lobby, which was willing to see the bill
pass only if Congress also agreed to scale back banks’ insurance powers. Under existing law, federally chartered
banks based in towns with fewer than 5,000 residents were allowed to sell insurance. Bank regulators had
interpreted the exemption to allow those banks to sell insurance anywhere nationwide.
The banks were unwilling to pay the insurance agents’ price, especially since some of the big banks were already
finding ways to use existing law to move toward interstate branching. In one high-profile case, NationsBank Corp.
was seeking to merge its Washington, D.C., and Maryland subsidiaries into a single bank by employing a loophole
in existing law that allowed a federally chartered bank to move its headquarters 30 miles, even across state lines.
In October 1993, the Clinton administration weighed in, endorsing an interstate banking bill. But in an Oct 25
speech, Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen urged Congress to move slowly, waiting until it had completed work on
bills to finish the savings and loan salvage operation and to establish a system of community development banks.
The administration also indicated that it would not put much energy into the effort, given the likelihood that the
insurance powers controversy would doom it once again.
In the House, Stephen L. Neal, D-N.C. who strongly supported interstate branching, agreed to postpone action until
1994. Neal was chairman of the Banking Committee's Financial Institutions Subcommittee.
7/3/09 1:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal94-1102892&type=hitlist&num=2
In the Senate, Banking Committee Chairman Donald W. Riegle Jr., D-Mich. tried to hold a markup Nov. 18, 1993, but
was forced to adjourn when Republicans refused to attend. Riegle had promised Christopher J. Dodd, D-Conn. that
he would try to move the bill. Dodd, who was both a big booster of the interstate banking bill and the insurance
agents’ principal advocate in Congress, was planning to attach an amendment rolling back bank insurance powers.
He had rounded up enough votes in the committee to add the amendment, as he had done in 1991. (1993
Almanac, p. 161)
As the 1993 session ended, prospects for passing an interstate branching bill seemed bleak. But the situation
turned around in February 1994, when Dodd announced on the Senate floor that he would no longer seek to pair
the insurance rollback with interstate branching.
With the bill enjoying almost unanimous support, sponsors succeeded in keepng the measure clean of unrelated and
potentially controversial provisions as it moved through the legislative process.
House Action
The House Banking Subcommittee on Financial Institutions approved a narrow branching bill Feb. 3 by a vote of
29-0.
While the subcommittee vote was impressive, it had been expected. Chairman Neal was the premier advocate for
interstate branch banking in the House. His state of North Carolina was home to NationsBank Corp., the fourth-
largest bank in the country and perhaps the loudest industry voice for branching.
At the markup, several senior members said it was imperative to keep the narrowly crafted bill free of unrelated
provisions, and that is what the subcommittee did. The panel approved a draft bill with the following basic elements:
Interstate banking. The bill effectively repealed the Douglas Amendment to the 1956 Bank Holding Company Act to
allow any bank to acquire banks located in any other state, one year after enactment.
Interstate branching. Eighteen months after enactment, bank holding companies that already owned multistate bank
networks could consolidate them into branches of a single bank. Three years after enactment, banks could open new
interstate branches by purchasing existing banks and converting them into branches.
States were given three years to opt out by enacting laws to prohibit both branching and consolidation. States that
chose to opt out of branching could force a rollback of consolidations that had occurred before the three-year period
expired.
The subcommittee rejected, 5-25, an amendment by Jim Leach, R-Iowa to permit branching only by institutions that had
equity capital equal to at least 6 percent of total assets. The subcommittee bill permitted only well-capitalized and well-
managed banks to branch across state lines, but that standard was lower than what Leach sought.
De novo branching. Banks could branch across state lines without acquiring and converting an existing bank only in
states that “opted in” by enacting laws to permit such branching.
State laws. A provision written in consultation with state regulators required interstate branches of federally chartered
out-of-state banks to follow state consumer protection, fair lending and community reinvestment laws as if the branches
were state-chartered banks.
The provision was strongly backed by consumer groups, which said it was essential in order to avoid rolling back
existing state protections. Under existing law, states did not have the authority to regulate federally chartered banks. But
under the Bank Holding Company Act, they did have the power to regulate national banks that operated in their states if
such banks were owned by out-of-state holding companies. For example, the Texas subsidiary of NationsBank, which
was federally chartered, had to follow Texas state banking laws. State regulators had expressed concern that if the
bank was converted to a branch, oversight would be left up to federal regulators examining the headquarters bank in
Charlotte, N.C.
Foreign banks. The bill allowed foreign banks, which operated so-called “wholesale branches” not subject to deposit
insurance premiums or community reinvestment mandates, to open such branches nationwide. Bankers complained that
the language would add to foreign banks’ competitive advantage.
CRA. The bill included provisions to ensure that the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) kept pace with the new
universe of national banking being created. The 1977 law required federal regulators to determine that a bank served
the credit- and banking-services needs of the communities in which it operated when considering its application to
merge with other institutions or to open and close branches. CRA advocates were concerned that without changes to
the statute, poor CRA performance by a bank's out-of-state branches might not be reflected in the institution's overall
evaluation.
But the CRA provisions — which required state-by-state CRA evaluations of the activities of institutions with multi-state
branch networks — were not very controversial because they were intended only to update the law, not to make it
tougher on banks.
House Full Committee
The House Banking Committee on March 9 approved the bill (HR 3841 — H Rept 103 -448) by an
7/3/09 1:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal94-1102892&type=hitlist&num=2
The House Banking Committee on March 9 approved the bill (HR 3841 — H Rept 103 -448) by an
overwhelming vote of 50-1. The lone “nay” vote was cast by Independent Bernard Sanders of Vermont.
“Hardly anyone raises objections to this bill on the merits. It's always been some extraneous matter that stood in our
way to passage,” said Neal. “There are no substantive objections to this legislation that I'm aware of.”
The lopsided vote came after the committee rejected two amendments that were backed by consumer advocates
but opposed by the banking industry.
The first, offered by Kweisi Mfume, D-Md. would have required banks wishing to branch across state lines to pledge
to make loans and offer banking services in poor neighborhoods and underserved banking markets. It also would
have blocked banks that had shown a pattern of closing inner-city branches from exercising the new branching
powers, and it would have required banks to disclose how much they lent to small and minority-owned businesses.
The requirements would have applied to banks with $1 billion or more in assets.
The committee rejected the amendment by a 17-34 vote after bill supporters argued that any controversial add-ons
would imperil the bill's passage.
The committee also rejected, 16-34, an amendment by Cleo Fields, D-La. to require banks that opened branches
across state lines to provide low-cost basic banking and government check-cashing services.
Consumer advocates were not completely shut out, however. A bipartisan amendment backed by committee leaders
and adopted by voice vote included a provision, sought by Maxine Waters, D-Calif. aimed at easing the impact of
bank branch closures on communities. It required federal regulators to work with community groups to mitigate the
effects of a branch closure and explore the possibility of developing alternative ways to replace the loss of bank
services, such as establishing a locally based credit union.
By voice vote, the committee rejected an amendment by Craig Thomas, R-Wyo. to allow the few remaining states
that restricted interstate bank acquisitions along regional lines to continue to do so, provided they enacted a law to
opt out of such interstate banking.
By a 13-38 vote, the committee rejected an amendment by Thomas to extend the time before consolidation of
existing banks from 18 months to three years.
House Floor
With an unusual degree of dispatch for an important banking bill, the House easily passed HR 3841 by voice vote
March 22 under expedited floor procedures that limited debate and barred amendments. As a result, Banking
Committee members Mfume and Joseph P. Kennedy H, D-Mass. were not able to get a floor vote on their
amendment to build additional protection for consumers. Although they faced almost certain defeat on the floor, they
had wanted a vote.
Senate Action
The bill's prospects in the Senate improved dramatically Feb. 3, when Dodd, a principal force in urging the Senate
Banking Committee to take up the interstate bill, announced on the Senate floor that he would no longer attempt to
use the bill as a vehicle for the insurance provisions. “While I continue to support legislation to rationalize bank
sales of insurance, I do not want to hold up interstate branching,“ Dodd said.
Senate Banking Committee
With an unusual display of unanimity, the Senate Banking Committee then approved its own draft measure Feb. 23,
voting 19-0 to give a green light to interstate branching.
Supporters of the bill (S 1963 — S Rept 103 -240) managed to keep the markup free of controversy and
unwelcome amendments. “I think the consensus has grown to the point that there's a very good chance of moving
this through,” said Chairman Riegle. “This bill has a good head of steam.”
The Senate bill generally mirrored the House version:
Interstate banking. It effectively repealed the Douglas Amendment to the 1956 Bank Holding Company Act to allow
banking companies to own banks in any state, effective one year after enactment
Like the House bill,  it included concentration limits to restrict any one bank's share of deposits in a state, unless the
state provided a waiver
Consolidation. Two years after enactment, bank holding companies could consolidate their existing bank subsidiaries
into a single network of branches. They also could purchase out-of-state banks and convert them into branches. States
could still enact laws to opt out and prohibit such bank consolidations.
De novo branching. The bill permitted banks to open branches across state lines without acquiring and converting an
existing bank only in states that passed laws to allow it.
7/3/09 1:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal94-1102892&type=hitlist&num=2
CRA. Like the House bill,  the Senate measure sought to amend the CRA.
The Senate bill did differ from the companion House measure in several significant ways, however:
State laws. Under the Senate bill,  federally chartered banks that were converted to branches were no longer to be
subject to state laws, which in many states, including California and New York, went beyond federal consumer
protections.
Foreign banks. The Senate bill allowed foreign banks to take advantage of the new branching powers only if they set
up insured U.S. banks and then branched from those banks. Wendell H. Ford, D-Ky. the chief advocate of the Senate
provision, argued that it would level the competitive playing field.
Senate Floor
The Senate passed the bill by voice vote April 26 after substituting the text of S 1963. Byron Dorgan, D-N.D. who
feared the measure would produce too much concentration in the banking system, registered the only audible “nay”
vote from a lightly populated Senate floor.
The Senate agreed by voice vote to change the date by which banks could consolidate separate subsidiaries into a
single bank to June 1, 1997. The committee bill would have permitted the consolidations two years after enactment,
but the nation's governors protested that they needed more time to consider whether to opt out.
Bob Graham, D-Fla. a former member of the Banking Committee, was poised to offer an amendment containing the
House language preserving the ability of states to regulate interstate branches of federally chartered out-of-state
banks, but he settled for a pledge from Riegle to look at the issue during conference negotiations with the House.
Before passing the bill, the Senate on April 25 adopted a bipartisan amendment offered by Riegle to preserve the
authority of states to tax banks. The amendment was sought principally by William V. Roth Jr., R-Del. States feared
that they would lose tax revenues as in-state banks that were subject to state taxes were converted into branches
of out-of-state banks. The amendment expressly provided that no aspect of the bill affected state taxing authority
over banks. But states still faced very complicated questions about how to tax bank branches.
Howard M. Metzenbaum, D-Ohio came to the floor intending to offer several amendments, including a controversial
proposal to require banks to offer low-cost “basic banking” and government check-cashing services. But
Metzenbaum declined to offer the amendments — vigorously opposed by the banking lobby as too burdensome —
after being rebuffed by bill sponsors.
Metzenbaum did prevail, by voice vote, on another amendment, this one to change federal statute-of-limitations
laws to restore $1.6 billion in Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and Resolution Trust Corporation (RTC)
lawsuits against officials of failed banks and thrifts. Recent court rulings had jeopardized the claims by applying
state statutes of limitation to federal suits.
Metzenbaum's provision allowed the regulators to bring lawsuits against thrift or bank officials for any negligent or
fraudulent behavior that occurred within five years of the time the regulators took over the institution, even if the
statute of limitations for the home state of the institution already had run out.
The administration, the RTC and the FDIC avidly sought the change, arguing that, without the authority to pre-empt
state statutes of limitations, more than $200 million in future recoveries against bank and thrift executives — or from
insurance companies responsible for such losses — would be lost.
Conference
After lengthy behind-the-scenes negotiations, staff aides and administration representatives ironed out almost all the
differences between House and Senate versions of the interstate branching bill, including one of the two key issues
— how state banking laws would apply to branches of federally chartered banks headquartered in other states. The
other chief dispute, over foreign banks, was among the last to be settled. Conferees were negotiating over the
community development bank bill at the same time.
State laws. The conferees agreed that state laws regarding community reinvestment, consumer protection, fair lending
and in-state branching would apply equally to branches of national banks and to state bank branches.
But the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which regulated federally chartered banks, could continue to preempt
state laws when they conflicted with federal law or when they gave state banks preferential treatment over national
banks. However, the comptroller's office had to give prior notice of its intention to pre-empt state laws and had to weigh
public comments before taking action.
Statute of limitations. The conferees watered down Metzenbaum's statute-of-limitation provision to apply only in cases
of fraud or intentional misconduct that resulted in “unjust enrichment” or losses to the institution — a much more difficult
legal standard to prove.
Opponents argued that Metzenbaum's language would effectively revive cases dating back as far as the early 1980s,
and that to resurrect such claims would be unfair to outside officers and directors of banks that had only a peripheral
role in a bank's failure.
7/3/09 1:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal94-1102892&type=hitlist&num=2
The change was a victory for defenders of the statute of limitations and for a small but powerful group of big insurance
companies that wrote liability insurance policies covering actions of bank and thrift executives and directors. While
those policies typically did not cover actions such as fraud, they did cover negligence. If the provision had been
broadened to cover negligence, they would have stood to assume substantial liability.
Foreign banks. The conferees dropped the provision backed by Riegle and Ford requiring that wholesale branches of
foreign banks set up subsidiary banks if they wanted to take advantage of interstate branching powers.
But the final bill contained two other major foreign banking provisions backed by Riegle, though in compromise form.
One reduced from 5 percent to 1 percent the statutory limit on the total amount of so-called retail deposits (defined
as deposits of less than $100,000) held by a wholesale branch of a foreign bank. In addition, when a foreign bank
acquired an existing U.S. bank and converted it to a branch of the foreign bank, the branch was to be subject to
Community Reinvestment Act mandates.
The conference committee also added House language that delayed for three years the onset of a requirement that
foreign banks be assessed examination fees as required by the 1991 banking bill (PL 102-242). (1991 Almanac, p.
75)
Final Action
The House adopted the conference report on the bill (H Rept 103 -651) by voice vote on Aug. 4. During the
brief and otherwise controversy-free House debate on the measure, Mfume and Kennedy said they were
disappointed that the bill had not included their provision barring interstate branching to banks that were shown not
to serve poor communities.
The Senate cleared the bill Sept. 13 by a vote of 94-4. (Vote 298, p. 51-S)
At least two senators had threatened to delay final action, but both decided to let the bill go forward.
Metzenbaum's anger over the fate of his statute-of-limitations provision was assuaged by a letter from Jonathan
Fiechter, acting director of the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS), who pledged that the agency would more
aggressively pursue thrift wrongdoers who were protected from lawsuits by the expiration of state statutes of
limitations.
The OTS, whose authority went beyond that of the RTC and FDIC, was not subject to state statutes of limitations.
Metzenbaum said the agency could therefore pursue not only fraud cases but also cases of negligence, which were
easier to prove and involved far greater potential recoveries by the government.
Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas had threatened to challenge a provision that House Banking Committee Chairman Henry
B. Gonzalez, D-Texas had added in conference effectively preserving Texas as the only state in which lenders could
not offer home equity loans. But Gramm was a big supporter of interstate powers, and, in the end, he decided not
to carry through with his threat.
Gonzalez's language overturned a recent federal court decision that eroded a “homestead protection” provision in
the 1875 Texas Constitution. That provision barred banks and other financial institutions from foreclosing on home
loans, effectively leaving Texas as the only state in which homeowners could not obtain home equity loans.
Gramm opposed Gonzalez and supported opening the door to home equity lending in Texas. Gonzalez, who was
not an ardent supporter of the underlying bill, insisted on the amendment, which he said would protect Texas
citizens from the threat of rapacious home equity lenders.
Features
Bank Branching Bill Provisions
The interstate banking and branching bill (HR 3841 — PL 103 - 328 ) allowed multistats bank holding
companies to merge their subsidiary banks into branches of a single bank, starting June 1, 1997. Three years after
enactment, bank holding companies could convert subsidiary out-of-state banks into branches. The bill also lifted
the few remaining obstacles to interstate purchases of whole banks one year after enactment.
In a victory for the little banks, so-called de novo branching — allowing banks to branch across state lines without
acquiring and converting an existing bank — was allowed only in states that “opted in” by enacting laws to permit
such branching. Otherwise, extending branch networks into new states required the purchase of an out-of-state
bank.
As enacted, PL 103 - 328 contained provisions to:
Interstate Banking
Bank acquisitions. Permit adequately capitalized and managed bank holding companies to acquire banks in any state
one year after enactment of the legislation (Sept. 29, 1995). State laws that limited holding company acquisitions to
7/3/09 1:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal94-1102892&type=hitlist&num=2
one year after enactment of the legislation (Sept. 29, 1995). State laws that limited holding company acquisitions to
banks that had been in existence for a specified period of time, though not to exceed five years, were preserved. Under
prior law, acquisitions were allowed when states had enacted reciprocal laws permitting them. Every state but Hawaii
permitted interstate purchases of whole banks, though about a dozen states limited such purchases along regional lines.
Concentration limits. Bar interstate acquisitions if they would result in the bank holding company controlling more than
10 percent of U.S. bank and thrift deposits or more than 30 percent of the deposits in the home state of the bank to be
acquired. State legislatures or regulators could waive the 30 percent limit. These concentration limits did not apply to the
initial entry into a state by a bank holding company. States could stipulate that any bank targeted for acquisition had to
have been in existence for a specified period not to exceed five years; this was aimed at preventing the formation of
new banks simply for the purpose of selling them to an out-of-state holding company.
CRA compliance. Require the Federal Reserve Board, the primary regulator of bank holding companies, to examine
the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) evaluation of any holding company (and its affiliated institutions) before
approving an acquisition. This was a restatement of existing law. The 1977 Community Reinvestment Act required
banks and thrifts to demonstrate that they were attempting to meet the credit and bank service needs of the entire
community in which they did business. The Fed also was required to take into account an institution's compliance with
state community reinvestment laws before approving interstate bank acquisitions; under existing procedures, the Fed
considered state CRA evaluations but was not officially required to do so.
Affiliated banks. Permit bank subsidiaries of an interstate bank holding company to act as agents for each other for
certain banking activities: receiving deposits, renewing time deposits, closing loans, servicing loans and receiving
payments on loans and other obligations for other affiliated institutions. Insured savings and loans that were affiliated
with banks as of July 1, 1994, subject to certain conditions, were allowed to act as agents for such banks.
Affiliated banks could act as agents for one another regardless of whether the institutions were in the same or
different states.
Interstate Branching
Interstate mergers. Permit adequately capitalized and managed banks to merge with out-of-state subsidiary banks
and convert each branch office into a branch of the resulting bank, starting June 1, 1997. The bank could subsequently
establish additional branches in the host state.
The law preserved state laws that required out-of-state banks or bank holding companies to merge with or acquire
banks that had been in existence for a specified minimum period of time (not to exceed five years). Banks were allowed
to set up branches across state lines via the purchase of individual branches only if permitted by state laws.
State opt-out/opt-in. Give states until  June 1, 1997, to enact laws to block out-of-state banks from establishing
branches in the state. The process was called “opting out.“ Banks headquartered in any state that opted out of interstate
branching would not be allowed to participate in any interstate merger transaction. States also could enact laws to
permit (“opt into”) interstate branching before June 1, 1997.
De novo branching. Permit banks to open branches in a state without first acquiring and converting an existing bank
only if the state enacted a law to permit such “de novo” branching. Once a bank established a de novo branch in a host
state, the bank could freely establish and acquire additional branches at any location in the host state in accordance
with federal and state laws.
Concentration limits. Prohibit mergers if the resulting bank would control more than 10 percent of deposits of insured
depository institutions in the United States or 30 percent or more of the deposits in any state. The provision, however,
contained significant exemptions. States were permitted to waive the 30 percent limit, and the concentration limits did
not apply to mergers of existing subsidiary banks, nor did they apply to a bank's initial entry into a state. State
concentration caps applied to initial entries.
State taxation authority. Preserve the rights of states to tax banks and bank holding companies. The provision meant
that when a bank in a state was converted to a branch of an out-of-state bank, state and local governments retained the
right to tax the branch, using their own taxation methods. The bill specifically allowed state and local governments to
impose a shares tax on a portion of a bank's stock.
State laws. Apply host-state laws governing community reinvestment, consumer protection and usury, fair lending and
intrastate branching to any branch of a federally chartered bank, including branches of banks headquartered out of
state. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), which regulated national banks, was made responsible for
enforcing such state laws. As under existing law, federal law could pre-empt state laws in certain circumstances.
Generally, state law applied to national banks unless it was in direct conflict with or an obstacle to accomplishing the
purposes of a federal law, or the federal law was comprehensive enough to demonstrate congressional intent
concerning a given subject area.
But some in Congress believed that the OCC had overreached in its use of pre-emption power, particularly in a case in
which it ruled that federally chartered banks in New Jersey did not have to comply with New Jersey's basic checking
account law. As a result, the bill added procedural requirements onto the federal government's ability to pre-empt state
laws. Before pre-empting state law, the comptroller had to publish the proposed ruling with a 30-day comment period;
the OCC had to consider the comments it received before making final judgment.
For state-chartered banks, host state banking laws applied to branches of out-of-state banks. State bank regulators
were permitted to examine branches of banks chartered in another state; state regulators had the same enforcement
authority over such branches as they had for banks chartered by their state.
CRA evaluations. Modify the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) to adapt it to interstate banks. Generally, under
gating law, individual banks were given CRA evaluations during annual examinations. Regulators (the Federal Deposit
7/3/09 1:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal94-1102892&type=hitlist&num=2
gating law, individual banks were given CRA evaluations during annual examinations. Regulators (the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation, the Federal Reserve and the OCC) assessed how well the bank was meeting the credit and
bank service needs of the community in which it did business, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods.
Regulators were required to take these CRA evaluations into account when the bank filed any application to the
regulator, including applications by the bank or its holding company to establish or close branches or merge with another
bank.
The bill attempted to update the CRA to adapt it to the new rules of interstate banking and branching. It required bank
regulators to prepare one overall evaluation of an institution's compliance with the CRA, as well as separate state-by-
state evaluations in each state in which it maintained branches. The state-by-state evaluations had to include separate
CRA evaluations to measure performance in each city in which the bank had a branch; a separate CRA evaluation was
required for each rural area in which the bank had a branch.
Federal banking regulators also were required to take into account banks’ CRA performance ratings when considering
interstate branching applications from banks desiring to merge and consolidate their out-of-state bank operations. An
institution's CRA performance in each state in which it maintained branches had to be considered.
The existing law governing interstate acquisitions of whole banks was the Bank Holding Company Act, enforced by the
Federal Reserve Board as the regulator of bank holding companies. Bank mergers were carried out under the Bank
Merger Act. The Federal Reserve Board's CRA regulations and practices for interstate bank acquisitions were
somewhat more stringent than the CRA rules and practices governing intrastate bank mergers.
When a bank made its initial entry into a state in which it had no banks or affiliates, the bill required that the CRA be
applied to such future interstate banking activities in a fashion that paralleled the approach taken by the Federal
Reserve. For all other interstate merger applications, existing regulations and practices governing bank mergers were to
apply.
Thirty-mile rule. Under a provision in the Civil War-era National Bank Act, a federally chartered bank was permitted to
move its headquarters 30 miles, even across state lines. This provision had been used as a means to branch interstate
in advance of the new banking and branching law, because banks were permitted to retain branches in the original
state after they moved the headquarters across state lines.
In an effort to ensure that banks branched interstate only through the mechanism outlined under the interstate banking
law, the bill barred banks from using the 30-mile loophole to branch into states that did not permit interstate branching.
Texas home equity loans. Overturn a recent federal court decision (First Gibraltar Bank v. Morales) that held that the
Office of Thrift Supervision had the authority to pre-empt a homestead protection provision in the Texas Constitution.
Texas was the only state that did not permit lenders to foreclose on borrowers’ homes; as a result, it was the only state
in which consumers could not borrow against the equity that had built up in their homes. The provision, added by House
Banking Committee Chairman Henry B. Gonzalez, D-Texas as his price for letting the bill pass, reinforced the Texas
Constitution and continued to block home equity lending in the Lone Star State.
Coordinated examinations. Permit state banking regulators to examine branches of out-of-state banks for safety and
soundness and to ensure compliance with state banking community reinvestment, fair lending and consumer protection
laws.
If a host-state examiner discovered that an out-of-state branch was in an unsafe or unsound condition or detected
violations of state banking laws, it could take enforcement actions equal to those it could take against a bank chartered
in the host state.
State regulators were permitted to enter into cooperative agreements to facilitate supervision of state banks operating
interstate. Nothing in this provision affected the authority of federal banking agencies to examine branches of insured
depository institutions.
Branch closures. Require that whenever a bank proposed to close a branch in a low- or moderate-income area, the
appropriate federal bank regulator upon request by the community consult with community representatives to explore
alternative means to meet the community's needs. Such options could include seeking ways to attract or establish a
new branch of another bank, chartering a new bank or thrift, or establishing a community development credit union.
Under the 1991 banking law, notices of branch closures had to be mailed to customers; the bill required that such
notices include the address of the bank's regulator and inform consumers that they could file comments with the agency.
Notwithstanding these consultations, nothing in the provision was to affect the authority of a bank to close a branch, or
affect the timing of such closures.
Bank fees study. Require the Federal Reserve to conduct an annual survey of the fees charged by banks for retail
banking services. Each report was required to describe national and state trends in the cost and availability of bank
services. Reports were required for seven years.
Deposit production ban. Bar banks from using interstate branches to siphon deposits from the community in which the
branch was located to other states.
By June 1, 1997, banking regulators were required to draw up regulations to prohibit such so-called deposit production
offices. If an out-of-state bank lent less than half as much as the average in-state bank, regulators would be required to
examine the bank's loan portfolio to determine whether the bank was reasonably fulfilling the credit needs of the
community in the host state. If not, the regulators would be authorized to close the branch and bar the bank from
opening new branches in that state.
Foreign Banks
7/3/09 1:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 9 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal94-1102892&type=hitlist&num=2
Branching. Enact a delicately negotiated compromise on rules governing establishment of wholesale branches by
foreign banks. The Senate-passed bill contained a provision that would have required foreign banks to establish a U.S.
subsidiary bank in order to branch across state lines. The House-passed bill would have provided foreign banks with
branching powers that mirrored the powers given to U.S. banks (i.e., requiring them to purchase a U.S. bank and
convert it to a branch).
The final bill generally accepted the House position, though with several modifications aimed at addressing concerns that
foreign banks’ wholesale branches might obtain a competitive advantage over U.S. banks. The provision was supported
by Democratic Sens. Donald W. Riegle Jr., Mich., and Wendell H. Ford, Ky., who said that uninsured wholesale branch
operations of foreign banks — which took large deposits and made loans to big corporate customers — had a
competitive advantage over U.S. banks because they were exempt from CRA lending and record-keeping requirements
and did not pay deposit insurance premiums.
The bill permitted a foreign bank to establish and operate wholesale bank branches, either de novo or by acquisition and
merger, in states other than their home states, to the same extent that a U.S. bank (state- or federally chartered)
headquartered in the foreign bank's home state was allowed to establish such branches.
CRA requirements. Continue to subject branches of foreign banks established through the acquisition of existing banks
or branches to CRA requirements. Banks that did not accept domestic deposits were not subject to the CRA.
Wholesale deposits. Cap at 1 percent, instead of 5 percent as under existing law, the total amount of so-called retail
deposits that could be held by a wholesale branch of a foreign bank.
In addition, bank regulators were directed to revise regulations under the International Banking Act to make sure that
they did not favor foreign banks over U.S. banks.
Under existing law, foreign wholesale bank branches were barred from taking retail deposits of less than $100,000 that
required deposit insurance. This effectively required foreign banks to establish a U.S. subsidiary bank in order to take
deposits of less than $100,000.
Exceptions were made for foreign businesses and governments, foreign citizens not residing in the United States, and
U.S.-based foreign employees of foreign banks, businesses, governments and international organizations. The bill
directed bank regulators to consider whether to restrict classes of customers who were permitted to make retail deposits
of less than $100,000.
Capital requirements. Permit, but not require, the Federal Reserve or the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
(OCC) to require a foreign bank to establish a separate U.S. subsidiary bank in order to engage in interstate branching if
the Fed or the OCC determined that it was the only way to verify that a foreign bank adhered to capital requirements
that were equivalent to those applicable to a U.S bank engaged in interstate branching.
Offshore shell branches. Prohibit foreign banks from using offshore “shell” branches of its U.S. subsidiaries to conduct
banking and financial activities that foreign branches of U.S. banks were not permitted to conduct.
Consumer protection laws. Clarify that U.S. consumer protection laws applied to foreign banks, affirming the longtime
regulatory interpretation of the Federal Reserve Board, which regulated foreign banks. The provision specified the
following laws: Electronic Funds Transfer Act, Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Expedited Funds Availability Act, Fair Credit
Billing Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, Real Estate
Settlement Procedures Act, Truth in Leasing Act, Truth in Lending Act and Truth in Savings Act.
Foreign bank examination fees. Provide a three-year moratorium on a provision of the 1991 bank bill that required the
Federal Reserve Board and other bank regulators to impose fees to cover the cost of examinations of a branch, agency
or representative office of a foreign bank. The moratorium was to begin in July 1995; regulators had delayed
implementing the fees because corresponding fees had not been imposed on U.S. banks.
General Provisions
Statute of limitations. Extend the statute of limitations to permit the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and
the Resolution Trust Corporation (RTC) to “revive” lawsuits that had expired under state statutes of limitation
The purpose of the provision was to give federal banking regulators additional time to sue officers and directors of failed
institutions for actions that contributed to an institution's failure, including fraud, intentional misconduct resulting in unjust
enrichment and intentional misconduct resulting in substantial loss to the institution. Examples of such misconduct
included self-dealing that resulted in unjust enrichment or a substantial loss to the institution, falsifying financial records
to disguise increased financial loss and conspiracy to violate banking rules or regulations.
A proposal to extend the statute of limitations in cases of negligence or gross negligence was dropped in conference.
The FDIC or the RTC, as conservator or receiver of a failed depository institution, could revive such claims within five
years of the appointment of the conservator or receiver.
Coin bills. Direct the U.S. Mint to issue several new commemorative coins. Profits derived from sales of the coins were
to be used to support the events or institutions to be commemorated. Coins were to be minted to support the following:
the 1995 Special Olympics World Games; the National Community Service Trust; the endowment of the Robert F.
Kennedy Memorial; the Bicentennial of the United States Military Academy in 2002; and the United States Botanic
Garden.
Financial Services Commission. Require a study of the United States financial services system conducted by the
Treasury Department in consultation with an Advisory Commission on Financial Services (to be named by the secretary
7/3/09 1:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 10 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal94-1102892&type=hitlist&num=2
Treasury Department in consultation with an Advisory Commission on Financial Services (to be named by the secretary
of the Treasury) and other enumerated federal agencies.
Document Citation
"Banking Law Undergoes Revision." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal94-1102892. Originally
published in CQ Almanac 1994 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1995). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal94-
1102892 (accessed July 3, 2009).
Document ID: cqal94-1102892
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal94-1102892
© 1995, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
