7/9/09 4:09 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal03-835-24339-1084192&type=hitlist&num=2
Privacy
2003 State Privacy Laws Pre-Empted
2000 No Consensus on Hill For Bill to
Protect Privacy Of Online
Consumers
2000 Congress Makes Attempt To
Tackle Medical Privacy, Although
No Laws Result
1999 In Absence of Legislative Action
on Medical Privacy, HHS Rules To
Take Effect
1995 Family Privacy
1988 Video Rentals Privacy
1986 Communications Privacy
1980 Medical Records Privacy
1979 Presidential Statement: Carter
Privacy Protection Proposals
1977 Privacy Report
1974 Student Records
1974 Privacy Act
1974 Freedom of Information Veto
Overridden
1972 Select Committee on Privacy
1972 Bank Account Privacy
1971 Senate Hearings on Invasion of
Privacy
1968 Federal Workers' Privacy
1966 Freedom of Information Bill
Enacted
1966 Committees Study Invasion of
Privacy
1965 Subcommittees Examine Federal
Invasion of Privacy'
Counterterrorism and Domestic
Intelligence
Federal and Civil Service Employees
Hospitals and Health Care Facilities
Internet Regulation
Violence Against Women and Children
BoxScore
Bill:
HR 2622 - PL 108 - 159
Legislative Action:
House passed HR 2622 (H Rept 108
-263, Parts 1, 2), 392-30, on Sept. 10.
Senate passed HR 2622, amended (S
Rept 108 -166), 95-2, on Nov. 5.
House adopted the conference report
(H Rept 108 -396), 379-49, on Nov.
21.
Senate cleared the bill by voice vote Nov.
22.
President signed Dec. 4.
State Privacy Laws Pre-Empted
An article from CQ Almanac 2003
Document Outline
Background
Highlights
Legislative Action
In a victory for the financial services industry, Congress cleared legislation
that blocked states from writing their own consumer credit reporting laws, and
ensured that businesses were covered by a single, nationwide privacy
standard. The bill permanently extended portions of the Fair Credit Reporting
Act that pre-empted state law and were scheduled to expire Jan. 1, 2004.
President Bush signed the bill into law (HR 2622 - PL 108 - 159 ) on
Dec. 4.
If Congress had not acted, states could have adopted tougher credit laws
starting in 2004. Enactment nullified a California law set to take effect within
months that would have allowed consumers to stop banks and other financial
institutions from sharing their personal financial information with affiliated
companies.
Business and financial groups made enactment a top priority and mounted an
intensive lobbying effort. They argued that without national privacy standards,
they would have to comply with a patchwork of state regulations, resulting in
higher interest rates for consumers, less access to credit and less protection
against identity theft. “The economy will not work if you have 50 different sets
of privacy laws,” said David Liddle, a spokesman for the Financial Services
Roundtable. “The wheels will come off.”
Consumer groups, on the
other hand, urged Congress
to let the provisions expire.
They said the law did not
provide sufficient consumer
protections — particularly on
the sharing of information —
and that states should be
permitted to enact laws that
better protected their
citizens.
Spencer Bachus, R-Ala., who
sponsored the House bill,
was able to mute the criticism and build bipartisan support by
adding provisions to guard against the growing problem of identity
theft. A Federal Trade Commission report said that 27.3 million
Americans had been the victims of identity theft in the previous five
years, leaving businesses on the hook for $48 billion and resulting
in $5 billion in out-of-pocket expenses.
Consumers won the legal right to place “fraud alerts” in their credit
file, formalizing a process used by credit reporting agencies.
Companies were required to take precautions before extending new
credit to those who described themselves as at risk of identity theft.
Consumers also won the right to a free copy of their credit reports
once a year from each of the major credit-reporting agencies.
In the Senate, Banking Chairman Richard C. Shelby, R-Ala., struggled to reconcile his own strong support for more
consumer privacy with pressure from the White House to quickly advance banking-friendly legislation. He ultimately
threw his support behind the bill when it was expanded to include a version of one of his chief proposals — giving
 
7/9/09 4:09 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal03-835-24339-1084192&type=hitlist&num=2
threw his support behind the bill when it was expanded to include a version of one of his chief proposals — giving
consumers more power to block solicitations from other parts of a financial conglomerate with which they already did
business.
A final conflict was resolved during House-Senate negotiations when conferees agreed to block states from
enacting identity theft statutes that were at odds with the bill. That was similar to language in the House bill and
was a disappointment to consumer groups that hoped to preserve a range of state powers in the area of identity
theft.
Background
The 1996 provisions renewed under the bill were enacted as part of the fiscal 1997 omnibus appropriations law (PL
104-208). They amended and expanded the original Fair Credit Reporting Act (PL 91-508), which became law in
1970 in response to the rapid growth of the credit reporting industry. (1970 Almanac, p. 624; 1996 Almanac, p. 2-
43)
The 1996 provisions established specific procedures for credit bureaus to follow in checking and correcting disputed
information in a consumer's file. They also extended the requirements to banks, retailers and other businesses that
furnish credit information to credit bureaus. They allowed the use of consumer credit reports for “prescreening”
activities that enabled companies to provide unsolicited offers of credit or insurance to consumers. And they allowed
affiliated companies to share with one another their customers' credit information, including credit applications and
reports. The 1996 law generally pre-empted stronger state credit laws, but it provided that this federal pre-emption
would end Jan. 1, 2004.
Highlights
The following are highlights of the 2003 law:
Federal pre-emption. The law permanently extended provisions of the 1996 law that prevented states from enacting
credit or credit reporting laws that conflicted with federal law. Among the pre-emptions made permanent was the
statutory authority of companies to share with affiliates under the same corporate umbrella certain credit and other
information regarding customers.
One-call fraud alert. Any consumer who believed he was a victim of fraud could place a “fraud alert” in his credit report,
good for 90 days, by calling a single national credit bureau that would pass the alert on to the others. Creditors were
required to take certain precautions before extending credit to consumers who had placed such alerts in their files.
Longer “extended alerts” were good for seven years. Members of the military or reserves could have “active-duty alerts,”
good for at least 12 months, placed in their files to protect them against fraudulent attempts to obtain credit under their
name while they were absent.
Protecting consumer credit. Consumers could block adverse information caused by identity theft from being furnished
to credit bureaus or from being given by one credit bureau to another party.
Other identity theft rules. Banks were required to develop policies and procedures to identify potential instances of
identity theft, and the law barred businesses that accepted credit cards or debit cards from printing on the receipts more
than the last five digits of the card number. This prohibition was effective three years after enactment.
Free credit reports. Consumers gained the right to obtain a free copy of their credit reports once a year from each of
the three national credit bureaus — Equifax, Experian and TransUnion — through a centralized source. Consumers also
could obtain free copies of their reports from specialty national reporting agencies, such as those that tracked rental
history, employment history or insurance claims.
Consumer notification. The law required financial institutions to notify consumers in writing no later than 30 days after
furnishing adverse or negative information regarding the consumer to a nationwide credit bureau. The aim was to enable
consumers to correct errors early and to alert them when they were victims of identity theft.
Credit report accuracy. Federal regulators were required to establish new, more stringent accuracy guidelines for
companies that furnished consumer credit information to credit bureaus.
Marketing “opt out.” Consumers could opt out of receiving solicitations from an affiliate based on consumer information
supplied to a related company. The consumer could block such solicitation for five years, with the option to renew for an
additional five years.
Credit scores. Credit bureaus were required to provide a consumer, upon request, information regarding the
individual's most recent credit score — a numerical rating drawn from information in the credit report — at a reasonable
fee. Mortgage lenders were required to disclose credit scores to the borrower if the scores affected the loan. The
Federal Trade Commission was required, in consultation with other agencies, to study the impact of using credit scores
and related insurance scores on the availability and affordability of financial products and services to various segments
of the U.S. population.
Medical information. Credit bureaus in most cases were required to black out medical information when consumer files
were used by lenders and prospective employers.
7/9/09 4:09 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal03-835-24339-1084192&type=hitlist&num=2
Legislative Action
House Subcommittee Action
Before bringing the Fair Credit Reporting Act extension to his Financial Services subcommittee, Bachus worked with
Darlene Hooley, D-Ore., to add identity fraud provisions that Hooley had backed for years. The result was
overwhelming support from the Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Subcommittee, which approved the bill,
41-0, on July 16.
During the markup, the committee adopted a number of amendments by voice vote, including proposals by:
Bernard Sanders, I-Vt., to require credit bureaus to include credit scores and an explanation of how the scores were
derived when providing credit reports. Consumer advocates said people needed to know their credit scores because the
better the score, the lower the interest rates they should be charged. Treasury Secretary John W. Snow, however, said
credit scores represented proprietary information that should be purchased by consumers. Existing law provided for a
free copy of a consumer's credit report, but that report did not always include the score.
Gary L. Ackerman, D-N.Y., to require financial institutions to notify the consumer if they were going to supply negative
information, such as late payments or defaults, to credit reporting agencies. Sponsors said the notification would provide
a strong incentive for consumers to pay off debts.
Luis V. Gutierrez, D-III, to commission a study by the Federal Trade Commission, in consultation with the Department of
Housing and Urban Development, on the effects of credit scores and insurance scoring on the availability of consumer
credit.
House Committee Action
The full Financial Services Committee approved the bill, 61-3, on July 24 (HR 2622 — H Rept 108 -263, Parts
1 and 2).
Consumer groups were not happy. “There were marginal improvements to the bill, but the overarching problem of
pre-emption remains,” said Edmund Mierzwinski, consumer program director at the U.S. Public Interest Research
Group, a consumer advocacy and lobbying group. An amendment by Maxine Waters, D-Calif., that would have
allowed the state law pre-emption provisions to expire failed, 6-56.
Still, many Democrats and Republicans praised the new consumer protections in the bill.
Approval capped a 12-hour markup, punctuated by several breaks, in which lawmakers debated 22 amendments,
adopting 11 by voice vote, including proposals to:
Prohibit credit bureaus from listing medical information, other than an amount owed, on a credit report.
Require furnishers of information to credit bureaus to conduct an investigation if a consumer provided proof that the
information was not accurate. Credit furnishers were barred from knowingly sending inaccurate information to a credit
bureau.
The panel rejected, 22-44, a Sanders amendment that would have limited a credit card company's ability to switch a
consumer's interest rate for failing to pay other bills on time. Instead, the committee adopted by voice vote an
amendment by Paul E. Gillmor, R-Ohio, to require credit card companies to disclose that they might switch a
consumer's rate.
House Floor Action
With members of both parties falling into line, the House passed the bill, 392-30, on Sept. 10. Many members said
during floor debate that they believed credit had become widely available in the United States in part because credit
bureaus, banks and merchants had been allowed to share consumer financial data free of state regulation. (House
vote 499, p. H-150)
During the debate, the House:
Rejected, 112-310, an attempt by Paul E. Kanjorski, D-Pa., to include a “sunset” provision that would cause the law to
expire within nine years. (House vote 496, p. H-150)
Rejected, 142-272, a proposal by Sanders to bar credit card companies from increasing a promised or introductory
interest rate because of negative information on other credit accounts included in the individual's credit report. (House
vote 495, p. H-148)
Adopted, 235-186, an amendment by Barney Frank, D-Mass., to require regional credit bureaus to provide consumers
with one free copy of a credit report each year. (House vote 497, p. H-150)
Adopted, 233-189, an amendment by Bob Ney, R-Ohio, to pre-empt any future state laws regarding free credit reports
and consumer access to credit scores. (House vote 498, p. H-150)
7/9/09 4:09 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal03-835-24339-1084192&type=hitlist&num=2
and consumer access to credit scores. (House vote 498, p. H-150)
Senate Committee Action
The Senate Banking Committee approved its version of the bill (S 1753 — S Rept 108 -166) by voice vote Sept.
23.
Shelby, co-chairman of the Congressional Privacy Caucus, initially said he would agree to extend the state
preemption only if the bill gave consumers significant new powers to restrict the marketing practices of financial
services companies with multiple affiliates. But financial services firms, particularly industry giants such as Citigroup
and Bank of America Corp. strongly opposed restrictions on their ability to share data. And the White House was
urging prompt action. Shortly before the markup, Shelby backed away from his demands.
The committee bill gave consumers the right to ban unwanted telephone or mail solicitations from affiliates only
when opening an account with a new company. The provision did not apply to consumers already doing business
with the financial services company.
The bill included several provisions aimed at increasing consumer control over credit information, but Mierzwinski of
the U.S. Public Interest Research Group said it did too much for businesses and too little for individuals. “We are
disappointed that the Senate Banking Committee is now on record with the House as supporting permanent pre-
emption of most stronger state credit reporting laws,” he said.
Like the House bill, the Senate included provisions to give consumers the right to a free copy of their credit reports
once a year, require lenders to disclose credit scores to mortgage applicants free of charge, and give consumers the
right to mark their records with a “fraud alert” so lenders would know to check first with consumers before extending
credit.
In addition, the Senate bill required that when a bank offered credit on terms that were “materially less favorable
than the terms generally available,” it would have to state whether negative information in the customer's credit
report was a factor in the decision. The financial services industry warned that such a policy might create extra
paperwork and processing costs because it could apply to millions of customers.
Senate Floor Action
The Senate passed HR 2622 by an overwhelming 95-2 vote Nov. 5, after substituting the text of its own bill.
Afterwards, Shelby dug in his heels indicating he had already compromised as much as he planned to. “We believe
we've got a better bill in the Senate, an improved bill over the House, and we're going to stay with the Senate
provisions,” he told reporters. (Senate vote 437, p. S-78)
The Senate:
Voted 70-24 to table, or kill, an amendment by California Democrats Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer that would
have permitted consumers to “opt out” of information-sharing arrangements among banks, insurers and brokerage firms
that are part of the same corporation. The amendment was similar to the new California law that was ultimately nullified
by the statute. (Senate vote 434, p. S-78)
Adopted by voice vote an amendment by Boxer to allow new customers of a bank, brokerage or other unit of a financial
company to permanently block solicitations from the company's sister divisions. The bill had allowed the opt-out to last
for five years.
Conference/Final Action
House and Senate conferees filed their report (H Rept 108-396) on Nov. 21, after reconciling the relatively narrow
differences between the two versions. The House adopted the conference report that evening by a vote of 379-49;
the Senate cleared the bill by voice vote the next day. (House vote 667, p. H-202)
Document Citation
"State Privacy Laws Pre-Empted." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal03-835-24339-1084192.
Originally published in CQ Almanac 2003 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 2004).
http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal03-835-24339-1084192 (accessed July 9, 2009).
Document ID: cqal03-835-24339-1084192
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal03-835-24339-1084192
© 2004, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
