7/9/09 3:18 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal96-841-24598-1091939&type=hitlist&num=9
Stock Market and Financial
Services
2004 Stock Option Accountability
2001 SEC Law a Win for Wall Street
1999 Major Overhaul Enacted Of Rules
Governing the Financial Services
Industry
1998 Loophole Fix Moves Class-Action
Securities Suits From State to
Federal Courts
1998 Financial Services Overhaul Dies
in Senate, A Victim of Friendly
Fire
1997 Financial Services Overhaul Stalls
1996 Securities Regulation Provisions
1996 Financial Services Provisions
1996 Congress Streamlines Securities
Rules
1994 Other Securities-Related Bills
Considered in 1994
1994 Financial Services Trade Bill
Falters at Session's End
1993 Financial Services Bill Seeks To
Open Markets
1993 Bill Tightens Regulation of
Government Bond Market
1992 Government Securities Bill Is
Quashed
1991 Government Securities Bill
Considered
1990 Market Control Authority of the
Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) Increased
1990 Congress Passes Bills
Strengthening Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC)
1989 Securities Arbitration
1989 Market Reform Stalled
1988 Stock Market Regulation
1988 Insider-Trading Bill
1986 Securities Dealer Regulations
1985 Government Securities Firms
1982 Commodity Futures Trading Bill
Cleared
1980 Securities Investor Privacy
1977 Investor Protection
1975 Overhaul Of Securities Industry
Approved
1974 Rules Committee Blocks
Securities Bill
1974 Municipal Bonds Regulation
1973 Stock Exchange Membership
1973 Securities Transactions
1973 Securities Thefts
1973 Federal Financing Bank
1972 Securities Transactions
1972 Securities Industry
1971 Securities Thefts: Mafia Moves on
Wall Street
1971 Securities Industry
Securities Regulation Provisions
An article from CQ Almanac 1996
Document Outline
Capital Markets
Mutual Funds
Investment Advisers
SEC Authorization/Fees
Miscellaneous
Following are the main provisions of the new law streamlining securities
regulations (HR 3005 — PL 104 - 290), signed Oct. 11. Most became
effective 180 days after enactment.
Capital Markets
Generally, this title was aimed at eliminating duplicative state and federal
regulation of securities registration and broker-dealers. The law:
Securities registration. Pre-empted, or blocked, state regulation of “covered
securities,” including those listed on national exchanges such as the New
York Stock Exchange, American Stock Exchange and Nasdaq, as well as on
other exchanges with substantially similar standards.
Also covered were: securities (mutual funds) issued by registered investment
companies; securities sold to “qualified purchasers” as defined by the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC); certain secondary market
transactions; unsolicited customer trades by brokers; government securities,
commercial paper and other securities issued under section 3(a) of the
Securities Act (except for securities of nonprofit organizations, intrastate
transactions and municipal bonds); and private placements.
Many states already exempted many of these types of securities.
States were also pre-empted from regulating prospectuses, proxy statements,
annual reports and disclosure documents.
State authority was preserved in several areas, including enforcement of laws
regarding fraud, deceit and unlawful conduct. States also could continue to
collect securities registration fees. As under prior practice, states could not
impose registration fees on stocks listed on national exchanges.
States retained fee and regulatory authority over “small-cap” Nasdaq offerings
and securities traded on regional exchanges.
Broker-dealer regulation. Pre-empted certain state laws that regulated
broker-dealers differently than federal law did. State laws that imposed
financial responsibility, bonding, reporting and margin or custody requirements
inconsistent with or exceeding the Exchange Act were pre-empted. In other
words, broker-dealers were no longer subject to differing state net capital and
recordkeeping requirements.
Stockbrokers were permitted to execute, subject to certain requirements, a de
minimus number of transactions for customers vacationing in a state where
the broker was not licensed.
Margin lenders. Permitted broker-dealers to borrow from sources other than
banks (such as insurance companies or pension funds) to meet margin
requirements. Margin requirements were made more flexible for brokers to
finance market-making and underwriting positions.
 
7/9/09 3:18 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal96-841-24598-1091939&type=hitlist&num=9
1971 Securities Industry
1970 Securities Exemption
1970 Protection for Stockholders
1970 Mutual Funds: New Controls
After Four-Year Delay
1970 Congress Clears Securities
Investor Protection Bill
1969 Securities Hearings
1969 Mutual Funds
1968 Securities Disclosure
1968 Over-The-Counter Securities
1968 Institutional Investors Study
1967 Securities Disclosure
1967 Hearings Held on S.E.C. Bill to
Regulate Mutual Funds
1965 Securities Fees
1964 Controls Over Stock Issues and
Dealers Strengthened
1963 SEC Study Submitted; Senate
Approves Bill
1962 S.E.C. Activities
1955 Stock Market Study
1955 Government Securities
1954 Changes In SEC Law
SEC flexibility. Granted the SEC additional regulatory flexibility by giving the
agency general authority to exempt firms, securities and types of transactions
from the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and any regulations issued
under those laws, provided the exemption was necessary or appropriate in the
public interest and did not harm investors. The idea behind the provision was
to give the SEC greater flexibility to modernize securities registration and
regulation without having to rely on sometimes tortured interpretations of
existing law.
SEC mission. Directed the agency to consider “efficiency, competition and
capital formation” when issuing regulations or reviewing self-regulatory
organizations such as the National Association of Securities Dealers, provided
the public interest was served and investors were protected.
Privatization of “EDGAR.” Required the SEC to examine proposals to
privatize the Electronic Data Gathering And Retrieval (EDGAR) system, which
permitted securities issuers to file reports via computer and made that
information and other SEC data available to investors, analysts and other
individuals.
Examination coordination. Required the SEC and self-regulatory
organizations (SROs) to share information and work in a coordinated fashion
to eliminate burdensome duplication in the examination process. The SEC
and the SROs were already working toward this goal.
Foreign press conferences. Required the SEC — which had already
proposed a rule in this area — to make it easier for U.S. journalists to gain access to offshore press conferences and
press materials without violating the Securities Act.
Mutual Funds
The bill overhauled the Investment Company Act, the law governing investment companies that principally offered
mutual funds. Generally, it simplified the process for registering mutual funds, eased rules on advertising, permitted
so-called funds of funds and made it easier for sophisticated investors to invest in private investment funds, many of
which were known as “hedge funds.” The bill:
Funds of funds. Relaxed restrictions on so-called funds of funds — mutual funds that invested in other funds —
provided these new funds of funds invested only in affiliated funds within the same corporate “family,” something the
SEC had allowed on a limited, case-by-case basis. The SEC was authorized to permit funds to invest in non-affiliated
funds.
Flexible registration of securities. Simplified the system under which mutual funds calculated and paid registration
fees under the Securities Act. (Mutual funds were continuously in registration, which complicated the registration
process.)
Mutual funds were permitted to pay registration fees to the SEC within 90 days after the end of their fiscal year, based
upon net sales for that year.
Fund advertising. Provided mutual funds with more flexibility to advertise by removing restrictions that limited mutual
fund ads to information contained in official prospectuses. The new flexibility permitted mutual funds to issue an
“advertising prospectus” that could contain other information, such as details about fund performance.
Variable insurance contracts. Permitted more flexibility in the regulation of variable insurance contracts. Prior limits on
the amount, type and timing of fees were replaced with a requirement that aggregate charges be “reasonable.”
Reports to the SEC and shareholders. Broadened SEC authority to permit the agency to require investment
companies to file reports to the agency more frequently than on a quarterly basis. The agency could require reporting of
such information as it deemed necessary to keep “reasonably current,” including investment activities and performance
results. Such additional information was to be provided to shareholders.
Books, records and inspections. Expanded the SEC's regulatory authority to permit the agency to require mutual fund
and investment companies to keep any records that the SEC deemed “necessary or appropriate in the public interest or
for the protection of investors,” instead of only records related to an investment company's financial statement as
required under prior law.
Misleading fund names. Expanded SEC rulemaking authority to permit the agency to block mutual funds from using
deceptive or misleading words or phrases in naming mutual funds or other securities.
Exempted investment companies. Exempted a number of entities from regulation under the Investment Company Act,
including dealers in interest rate and currency “swaps.”
In addition, private investment pools whose securities were held by “qualified purchasers,” namely wealthy
individuals and institutional investors, were exempted from the Investment Company Act, which had limited such
7/9/09 3:18 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal96-841-24598-1091939&type=hitlist&num=9
individuals and institutional investors, were exempted from the Investment Company Act, which had limited such
entities to 100 or fewer investors. (Qualified purchasers primarily included individuals with investments of at least $5
million and institutions with investments of at least $25 million.)
The most significant effect of the provision was to permit “hedge” funds to sell securities to more than 100 investors.
Such privately traded funds typically invested in riskier investments such as options and derivatives than did publicly
traded mutual funds.
The prior 100-investor exemption to the act for private investment pools was further streamlined.
The SEC was given authority to define additional persons as qualified investors and was required to define what
constituted an “investment” for purposes of meeting the $5 million and $25 million caps for eligibility to participate in
a hedge fund.
Performance fees. Exempted investment advisers to hedge funds and other qualified purchaser pools from the
Investment Advisers Act's general prohibition on fees based on investment performance. Such performance fees were
also permitted for offshore clients of investment advisers and for advice provided to sophisticated investors.
Investment Advisers
Generally, the bill made changes to the Investment Advisers Act, which governed the booming market in financial
planning. Smaller investment adviser firms would be regulated by the states; the SEC would regulate and examine
investment advisers with $25 million or more in assets under management. The law:
SEC funding. Authorized $20 million in both Fiscal 1997 and 1998 for additional scrutiny of investment advisers, or
financial planners. (None of this money was appropriated for fiscal 1997.)
Federal/state regulation. Divided regulatory responsibility for advisers between the SEC and the states, based
generally upon assets under management
Investment advisers with assets of $25 million or more (or such higher figure set by the SEC) had to register and be
regulated by the SEC, as did investment advisers that serviced investment companies registered with the SEC or
that were not regulated by their home states. (Four states did not regulate the industry.) The SEC estimated that it
would regulate 28 percent of all advisers, representing 96 percent of assets under management by advisers.
All other advisers, those with less than $25 million in assets, had to register with the state in which they maintained
their principal place of business.
States were pre-empted from regulating investment adviser firms registered with the SEC or the firm's “supervised
persons,” including employees who did not have contact with customers.
States also retained authority to receive filings and existing registration fees from SEC-registered and regulated
advisers and retained anti-fraud authority over all advisers.
States could register “investment adviser representatives” — as later defined by the SEC — of SEC-registered
advisers, such as certain contract workers, if those representatives had a place of business in the state.
State uniformity. Provided that in cases in which advisers were state-registered, the home state would determine
capital, bonding and recordkeeping requirements. States were prohibited from requiring registration or licensing of out-
of-state investment advisers that had six or fewer clients within the state.
Convicted felons. Permitted the SEC to revoke registration and licenses of persons convicted of all felonies, not just
ones involving financial crimes.
Investor access to information. Required the SEC to establish and maintain a readily accessible telephonic or other
electronic process (intended to be a toll-free number) to enable investors to obtain information regarding disciplinary
actions and proceedings against investment advisers.
SEC Authorization/Fees
This title authorized the SEC's budget and gradually reduced SEC registration fees over nine years so that by the
end of that period, such fees would raise approximately the cost of operating the agency. The bill:
SEC authorization. Authorized fiscal 1997 appropriations of $300 million for the SEC.
Securities registration fees. Reduced future SEC registration fees from 1/29 of 1 percent in fiscal 1996 to 1/50 of 1
percent in 2006, and then 1/150 of 1 percent in 2007 and subsequent years. (The statutory limit in the Securities Act
was 1/50 of 1 percent, but recent appropriations bills had raised the fees.)
Fees in excess of 1/50 of 1 percent could be used as “offsetting collections” to directly fund the agency, subject to
approval of congressional appropriators; in the event of a lapse in appropriations, the agency could continue to
7/9/09 3:18 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal96-841-24598-1091939&type=hitlist&num=9
approval of congressional appropriators; in the event of a lapse in appropriations, the agency could continue to
collect fees at the level of the prior year.
Transaction fees. Imposed transaction fees of 1/300 of 1 percent on the aggregate dollar amount of each stock trade
through 2007, when they would be reduced to 1/800 of 1 percent. Prior law imposed the 1/300 of 1 percent fee on
stocks traded on exchanges but not for the Nasdaq over-the-counter market
As with the above registration fees, the transaction fees could be used as offsetting collections.
Miscellaneous
The bill also:
Economic, business and development companies. Exempted a new class of investment companies — those whose
activities were limited to economic, business or industrial development in the same state — from the Investment
Company Act. (The effect was to exempt them from SEC regulation.) Such companies were aimed at stimulating local
economies by providing direct investment and lending, as well as managerial assistance, to state and local businesses.
To qualify for the exemption, at least 80 percent of the company had to be sold to state residents. Only accredited
investors could purchase the securities, which could not be redeemed before the maturity date.
Intrastate closed-end investment companies. Provided the SEC greater flexibility to exempt from regulation closed-
end funds that issued securities only within a particular state by increasing the aggregate amount of securities that could
be offered from $100,000 to $10,000,000.
Business development companies. Modified existing law to lift certain restrictions on “business development
companies” — closed-end funds that invested in small and developing businesses. Unlike traditional mutual funds, such
funds were required to provide managerial assistance to the businesses in which they invested.
Most significantly, the class of businesses eligible to receive investments and managerial help (“small eligible
company”) from business development companies was broadened to include a new class: those with assets of less
than $4 million and capital and surplus of at least $2 million. Business development companies were permitted to
invest in, but not provide managerial assistance to, these new eligible portfolio companies.
Church employee pension plans. Exempted from most federal securities laws any church employee pension plan and
pre-empted state regulation of such plans. None of the assets in such plans could be diverted to any other use but to
benefit employees, who had to be notified that the plan was not regulated.
Studies and reports. Required the SEC to conduct studies on a number of subjects, including: the need for
international accounting standards; the impact of technological advances; shareholder proposals; the practice of giving
preference to some customers when executing stock trades; and ways to develop uniform state broker-dealer licenses.
Document Citation
"Securities Regulation Provisions." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal96-841-24598-1091939.
Originally published in CQ Almanac 1996 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1997).
http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal96-841-24598-1091939 (accessed July 9, 2009).
Document ID: cqal96-841-24598-1091939
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal96-841-24598-1091939
© 1997, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
