7/3/09 12:38 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 3http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal92-1107459&type=hitlist&num=7
Document Outline
Limitation on Trading Practices
Regulatory Enhancement
Assistance to Foreign Exchanges
Miscellaneous Provisions
Intermarket Coordination
Provisions of Reauthorization for Commodities Futures Trading
Commission (CTFC)
An article from CQ Almanac 1992
As passed, the legislation (HR 707 — PL 102 – 546) to reauthorize/the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
did the following:
Limitation on Trading Practices
Dual Trading. Prohibited dual trading in any futures market unless the CFTC provided a specific exemption. Dual
trading occurred when brokers traded for a client and for themselves or a fellow broker on the same day. Abuse of dual
trading could enable a broker to capitalize on inside knowledge of a client's order.
The CFTC could exempt an exchange if any of the following conditions were met:
The exchange had an electronic internal audit system set up to monitor the times and amounts of all trades on the
trading floor.
The CFTC found that banning dual trading would be harmful to the public interest.
The contract market was small, with less than 7,000 contracts changing hands each day. The CFTC could adjust this
threshold to account for market liquidity, price volatility and other considerations.
Broker associations. Forbade brokers from knowingly executing customer orders with someone with whom they were
affiliated through a broker association or an employment or other relationship. Brokers would have to disclose to the
exchange and to the CFTC any knowledge of business or financial relationships between traders.
Regulatory Enhancement
Audit trails. Required that exchanges put into place electronic or computerized systems to monitor all floor trades,
recording the parties and the exact time of the transaction. Within three years, the auditing methods would have to be
sophisticated enough to provide data to the market on a continuous basis and to independently register the time of each
transaction and check it against the time entered by the trader. For the most part, the technology to establish these audit
trails existed and was being purchased and installed by several of the major futures exchanges. With accurate auditing
of transactions, dual trading would be permissible because trading abuses could be identified. The CFTC would have
broad authority to inspect and monitor the audit trail technology and to determine when it met the statutory standards.
Audit reporting. Required the CFTC to report within two years of enactment on how the futures exchanges were
complying with the audit requirements. The General Accounting Office was also to report on audit trail compliance.
Market auditing. Required that each futures market in each exchange maintained and used an audit system that
included inspectors for floor trading, electronic records of transactions as they were reported and appropriated discipline
for infractions.
Deficiency orders. Set mandatory inspection guidelines for the CFTC to audit exchange systems at least once every
two years. Flaws in the system would have to be reported and improved. The exchanges would have certain appeal
rights regarding the inspections and findings.
Telemarketing fraud. Required that futures associations establish supervisory guidelines for telephone solicitation.
They could require that a member not enter an order by a new customer until  three days after the customer signed an
 
7/3/09 12:38 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 3http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal92-1107459&type=hitlist&num=7
They could require that a member not enter an order by a new customer until  three days after the customer signed an
agreement acknowledging the risk involved in the trade.
Undercover operations. Directed the CFTC to cooperate with federal agencies in requesting and arranging undercover
operations.
Disciplinary committees. Provided guidelines to the exchanges for establishing review panels on disciplinary actions
for traders found to break the rules.
Board memberships. Outlined the requirements for members serving on the oversight boards for each contract market
and required that the futures associations refuse membership to individuals found to violate trading rules.
Floor trader registration. Required all individuals who traded in a contract market for their own accounts to register
with the CFTC. The registration could be revoked if a trader violated CFTC regulations. All registered traders would have
to attend periodic ethics training seminars.
Increased penalties. Established a range of felony penalties for individuals who violated trading rules. The penalties
would be determined in part by the gravity of the infractions, as well as the financial strength of the individuals found
guilty. The penalty for embezzlement would be increased to $1 million for corporations and $500,000 for individuals.
The bill also would set criteria for establishing the financial liability of brokers who violated trading rules. The broker's
firm could be held liable for claims arising from rules violations, and in cases in which the firm willfully selected the
broker to aid in the violation, the firm could face punitive damages. The CFTC would have authority to force individuals
who violated trading rules to pay restitution to clients.
Insider trading. Made it a felony to trade on the basis of material, non-public information.
Commissioner requirements. Set guidelines for CFTC commissioners and outlined the conditions under which a
member of a futures market governing board violated conflict of interest rules.
Study directives. Directed the General Accounting Office to study a fee collection system that would help pay for
enforcement of the new rules. The CFTC also would be required to study the competitiveness of the U.S. futures trading
industry in relation to those of other countries.
Computerized trading. Recommended that the CFTC assist in the development and use of computerized trading
systems in addition to the traditional open outcry trading then used in futures pits.
Published rules. Required the CFTC to publish and allow public review of all guidelines governing civil penalties.
Assistance to Foreign Exchanges
Allowed the CFTC to assist foreign futures authorities in investigating possible violations of futures trading laws, when
the investigation was deemed to be in the “clear interest” of the United States. Information regarding such an
investigation could be be disclosed only to Congress or during a judicial inquiry. The provision exempted certain
information related to foreign futures exchange investigation from the Freedom of Information Act when the release of
such information would violate confidentiality laws in the foreign country.
Miscellaneous Provisions
Authorized appropriations in the amount of $53 million for fiscal 1993 and $60 million for fiscal 1994.
Authorized the CFTC to suspend or alter the registration of any person charged with violations of the Commodity
Exchange Act.
Empowered the CFTC to adopt recordkeeping and reporting requirements for futures commission merchants.
Intermarket Coordination
Futures margins. Allowed the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to set or change margin levels
required on stock-index futures transactions, or options on stock-index futures. The authority could be delegated to the
CFTC on a daily basis. Margins were the good-faith deposits on futures transactions that ensured that the contract could
be fulfilled by both parties.
Swaps and hybrids. Authorized the CFTC to exempt certain exotic financial instruments from the requirements of the
Commodity Exchange Act. The conference report specified that the exemption was to be used “sparingly.” The provision
was written to apply solely to swaps and other derivative products known as hybrids, forwards, and deposits, which
defied the traditional formulation of futures products.
Studies of derivatives. Directed the CFTC to cooperate with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Federal
Reserve Board to conduct a comprehensive study of swaps and the offexchange derivatives trading industry. The study
7/3/09 12:38 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 3http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal92-1107459&type=hitlist&num=7
Reserve Board to conduct a comprehensive study of swaps and the offexchange derivatives trading industry. The study
was supposed to examine whether a single federal agency should regulate the markets for futures, securities, options,
swaps and derivative products.
Document Citation
"Provisions of Reauthorization for Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CTFC)." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ
Almanac Online Edition, cqal92-1107459. Originally published in CQ Almanac 1992 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly,
1993). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal92-1107459 (accessed July 3, 2009).
Document ID: cqal92-1107459
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal92-1107459
© 1993, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
