7/3/09 11:49 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 13http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal87-1144361&type=hitlist&num=3
Housing Appropriations
2000 More Than 1,000 Earmarks Adorn
Bill for Veterans Affairs, Housing
and Urban Development; Housing
Gets Big Boost
1994 Progress Halts on Housing Bill
1993 Veterans Affairs, Housing and
Urban Development
Appropriations Cover Diverse
Needs, From Space Stations to
Public Housing
1992 Housing Bill Cleared at Session's
End
1990 U.S. Housing Programs
Overhauled
1990 Bill for Veterans Affairs, Housing
and Urban Development Trims
Housing, Boosts NASA
1989 Spending Bill Totals $67 Billion
for Housing and Urban
Development (HUD), Veterans
Affairs (VA)
1989 Reauthorization Bills For Housing
Proposed
1988 Space Station Survives in Bill
Granting $59.4 Billion to the
Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD)
1987 Housing Authorization Clears at
Last Minute
1986 $56 Billion in Funding Set Aside
for Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD),
Assorted Agencies
1985 $57.3 Billion Approved for
Housing and Urban Development
(HUD), Additional Agencies
1983 Compromise Reached on Housing
Revisions
1981 HUD, Agencies Funds
1980 HUD-Independent Agencies
1979 Housing Authorization
1978 Housing Authorization
1978 $67.9 Billion HUD Funds Bill
Cleared
1977 1977 Housing Authorization
1976 Housing, Independent Agencies:
$43-Billion
1975 Housing and Flood Insurance Bills
Cleared
1975 Ford Signs Compromise Housing
Legislation
1974 HUD-NASA-VA Appropriations:
$21.2 Billion
1973 Presidential Statement to
Congress: Nixon Proposes
Housing Plan
1973 Housing Program Authority
Extended to Oct. 1, 1974
Housing Authorization Clears at Last Minute
An article from CQ Almanac 1987
Document Outline
Provisions
Background
Senate Committee Action
Senate Floor Action
House Subcommittee
House Full Committee
House Floor Action
Conference
Final Action
In a brink-of-adjournment rescue of a seemingly lost cause, Congress cleared
an authorization bill for housing and community development programs for the
first time since 1980. A final compromise on the bill (S 825 — H Rept 100 –
426) was approved by the Senate on a voice vote late Dec. 21 and by the
House on a vote of 391-2 the following morning. (Vote 511, p. 156-H)
Before the votes were taken, White House officials assured S 825 sponsors
in both chambers that President Reagan would sign the bill (PL 100 -
242 ), which he did on Feb. 5, 1988. Reagan's role was critical because
Senate sponsors lacked the votes to override his long-threatened veto of any
housing bill containing new programs and additional spending.
They learned this the hard way when a House-Senate conference agreement
on the bill, initially approved in the House by a vote of 391-1, was defeated in
the Senate on two procedural votes in November.
Thereafter, Alan Cranston, D-Calif., who chaired the Senate Banking
Committee's Housing Subcommittee, and his GOP cosponsor, Alfonse M.
D'Amato, N.Y., kept the bill alive by engineering a series of changes with
Republican colleagues Jake Garn of Utah and Pete V. Domenici of New
Mexico.
The handiwork of these four senators and their staffs became the basis for
the final compromise that both chambers approved with deceptive ease in the
session's waning hours.
The bill authorized $15 billion for housing and community development during
fiscal year 1988 and $15.'! billion in fiscal year 1989. It included $7.17 billion
and $7.3 billion for assisted housing, $3 billion each year for Community
Development Block Grants (CDBGs). $1.8 billion each year for rural housing
loans and $1.5 billion each year for operating public housing projects.
The aggregate figure for fiscal 1989 reflected a 2 percent increase ceiling set
by a budget-summit agreement reached in November between Congress and
the White House. The previous House-Senate conference agreement had
allowed a 4 percent increase in the second year. (Economic summit, p. 609)
Perhaps the bill's most popular feature was its permanent extension of
Federal Housing Administration (FHA) authority to insure home mortgage
loans. A permanent extension had been sought by lobbyists for home
builders, mortgage bankers and real estate agents. Several legislators
credited that coalition with keeping up the pressure for passage of S 825.
The popular FHA program had to rely on temporary extensions during the
1980s, as conflicts between House Democrats and a Republican Senate and
White House prevented the passage of a free-standing authorization for
 
7/3/09 11:49 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 13http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal87-1144361&type=hitlist&num=3
Extended to Oct. 1, 1974
1970 Congress Authorizes $2.9 Billion
for Housing Programs
1968 Open Housing Funds Denied In
HUD-NASA Money Bill
1959 Housing Bill Enacted on Third Try
1958 House Kills Broad Housing Bill
1949 Housing Act of 1949 S 1070 —
P.L. 171
1948 Housing Act of 1948
Federal, Subsidized or Low Income
Housing
White House prevented the passage of a free-standing authorization for
housing programs.
In its final, much-amended form, S 825 created some new programs and rules
that had been opposed by conservative Republicans and by the White House
throughout the bill's yearlong odyssey.
The most controversial of these was a program of interest-free loans in
targeted areas (the “Nehemiah” program), benefits for households displaced
by federally aided community development projects and an aggressive effort
to remove lead-based paints from all federally assisted housing.
In the end, opponents were willing to sign on because the scope of such new
programs had been narrowed and because firm termination dates had been
set for a number of programs, old and new.
The compromise also bowed to the White House by increasing the role of
vouchers (rental subsidies that substituted for actual units of public housing), including a two-year pilot program to
test their effectiveness in rural areas.
Provisions
As signed into law, S 825:
General
Term of Extension. Authorized the programs and activities covered under the bill for a period of two fiscal years ending
Sept. 30, 1989, except in those instances noted.
Overall Spending. Authorized the spending of $15 billion for programs authorized in the Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD) and the Farmers Home Administration (FmHA) during fiscal year 1988. A 2 percent inflation
adjustment raised the authorization aggregate to $15.3 billion in fiscal 1989.
Housing Assistance Programs
Low-Income Housing Funds. Authorized an aggregate of $7.17 billion in fiscal 1988 and $7.3 billion in fiscal 1989 for
low-income housing assistance, other than rural housing programs.
Vouchers. Authorized $2.4 billion in fiscal 1988 and $2.46 billion in fiscal 1989 for certificates and vouchers assisting
low-income residents in paying rent under Section 8 of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937. Through Section 8. the federal
government subsidized low-income residents' use of properties not owned by the government.
Comprehensive Improvement Assistance Program (CIAP). Authorized $1.7 billion and $1.73 billion for CIAP grants
for rehabilitating and improving existing units of assisted housing for low-income residents.
Elderly and Handicapped. Authorized $1.68 billion and $1.71 billion for housing for the elderly and the handicapped
under Section 8 of the 1937 act and Section 202 of the U.S. Housing Act of 1959.
Operating Subsidies for Low-Income Housing. Authorized $1.5 billion and $1.53 billion under Section 9 of the 1937
act for federal contributions to the operation of public housing projects. The subsidies were accompanied by a new
“performance-funding” system to reward well-managed projects.
Section 202 Elderly/Handicapped Loans. Authorized $622 million and $630 million for direct loans for the elderly and
handicapped under Section 202 of the 1959 act.
Public and Indian Housing Grants. Authorized $481 million and $490 million for public and Indian housing grants, of
which not more than $145.7 million was to be available each year for Indian housing.
Moderate Rehabilitation. Authorized $400 million and $407.6 million for moderate rehabilitation of existing units of
Section 8 housing.
Property Disposition. Authorized $301.7 million and $307.4 million for expenses incurred by public housing authorities
in the demolition or other disposition of public housing available through existing contracts under Section 8. The bill
granted a right of first refusal to state and local governments that might purchase such housing.
Rental Rehabilitation Grants. Authorized $125 million in each fiscal year for rehabilitating units of rental housing, with
the size of the grant limited to a maximum of $5,000 for an efficiency apartment, $6,500 for a single bedroom, $7,500 for
two bedrooms and $8,500 for units with three or more bedrooms.
Section 8 Loan Management. Authorized $187 million and $190.7 million for managing Section 8 loans.
7/3/09 11:49 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 13http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal87-1144361&type=hitlist&num=3
Housing Development Action Grants (HODAG). Authorized $75 million in each year for the Housing Development
Action Grant program. The program was to end after two years.
Urban Homesteading. Authorized $12 million and $13 million for the program under which prospective homeowners,
especially low-income persons, received assistance in rehabilitating homes using their own labor and resources.
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation. Reorganized this source of local-improvement funds and authorized $19
million each year for its activities.
Solar Bank. Eliminated the $3 million financing mechanism for projects employing solar energy.
Congregate Services. Authorized $10 million in each of the fiscal years for the Congregate Housing Services program,
which assisted the elderly who lived in federally assisted housing but did not need the services of a nursing home. The
bill made the program permanent. The conference report specified that no particular number of meals was mandatory so
long as nutritional needs were met.
Public Housing Child Care. Authorized $5 million and $5.2 million from Community Development Block Grant funds for
demonstration grants to public housing authorities to provide child care to low-income families.
Regulatory Changes
Lead Paint Abatement. Required inspection for, and abatement of, lead-based paint in publicly owned, federally
assisted housing constructed (or substantially rehabilitated) prior to 1978 in which a child of 7 years or younger resided.
Resident Managers. Provided incentives and rules for resident managers in public housing to improve maintenance
and involve residents in repair and improvements.
Restricted Eligibility for Aliens. Restricted eligibility for assisted housing to citizens and documented aliens. Current
residents were not to be evicted if they were members of a household whose head was a citizen or documented alien.
Termination of assistance to the ineligible could be deferred for six-month periods (for up to three years) to permit an
orderly transfer of tenants.
Restraint of Section 8 Prepayment. Permitted prepayment of federally assisted mortgage loans by owners of low-
income rental housing (and the termination of commitments to make the housing available to low-income residents)
when such owners had a prepayment plan approved by HUD.
The conference report indicated, however, that HUD was expected not to terminate the owners' commitments unless
the needs of those displaced by such a conversion could be met. And the bill included incentives (such as insurance
for a second mortgage) to owners to extend use of the property by low-income tenants.
Flood Insurance. Liberalized assistance in obtaining flood insurance for residential structures in imminent danger of
collapse. However, the program was to be terminated after two years.
Non-Profit Agencies. Authorized non-profit organizations to receive federal aid in buying housing at fair-market prices
(for the purpose of renting to low-income residents) from owners who were prepaying their existing mortgage loans.
Demolition Restraints. Prohibited the demolition, or other disposition, of public housing unless one-for-one
replacement was provided to meet continuing housing needs or unless substitute Section 8 subsidies were available.
The bill also provided for relocation reimbursement.
Eviction for Non-Payment of Rent. Preserved current rules permitting landlords to evict tenants for nonpayment of
rent without a House-proposed requirement for a prior, formal review of tenants' situations.
Voucher Adjustment. Reserved a portion of the voucher funds provided in the bill for an adjustment pool to
compensate for higher-than-normal rent increases experienced by those receiving such assistance. HUD was not given
discretion to distribute the funds unless demand exceeded the amount available.
Phase-in of Rent Increases. Permitted graduated rental increases for tenants whose incomes increased, subject to
exemption requests by public housing authorities.
Set-Aside for Lowest-Income Residents. Continued the existing requirement that 95 percent, of all units made
available since 1981 be made available to families with incomes below 50 percent of the median income for their area.
The requirement was amended to allow public housing authorities to meet the target in the aggregate and to request
waivers.
Voluntary Standards for Modular Housing. Authorized HUD to allocate $50,000 to the National Institute of Building
Sciences to study the creation of voluntary preemptive national codes for modular housing.
Rural Housing
7/3/09 11:49 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 13http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal87-1144361&type=hitlist&num=3
Spending Levels. Authorized $1.77 billion and $1.79 billion for home loan programs and $52 million and $53 million for
housing grants.
Moderate-Income Rural Loans. Initiated a demonstration project by which at least 5 percent (but no more than 10
percent) of guaranteed rural home loans were earmarked fur buyers earning up to 115 percent of the area's median
income.
RRAP Contracts. Increased the authorization for Rural Rental Assistance Payment Contracts (RRAP) to $275 million in
fiscal 1988 and $280 million in fiscal 1989 to cover existing contracts, renew expiring contracts and add new contracts.
FmHA Rural Vouchers. Authorized a two-year demonstration program in up to five states with up to 7,500 vouchers in
each of the two fiscal years. The program was to end after two years.
Restraint of Rural Housing Prepayment. Permitted the FmHA to seek to sell assisted housing in rural areas to any
qualified non-profit organization or public agency before accepting the current owner's bid to prepay or refinance an
FmHA loan under contract before Dec. 21, 1979.
Community Development
General Spending Levels. Authorized $3 billion each year for CDBGs and $225 million each year for Urban
Development Action Grants (UDAG).
Restricted Use of UDAG. Prohibited the use of UDAG money to relocate an industrial or commercial facility from a
community eligible for HUD assistance to a community ineligible for such assistance. Exceptions were allowed if the
HUD secretary determined the relocation would not have a significant adverse effect on the employment or economic
base of the community from which the relocation took place.
Anti-Displacement Regulations. Prohibited the use of CDBG or UDAG funds in projects that would displace low- and
moderate-income tenants, unless the grantees provided replacement housing and paid relocation costs. Replacement
housing had to be one-for-one in value and guaranteed to be available for at least. 10 years.
The provision of 10-year-available housing could be waived if the HUD secretary found that the area had enough
habitable and affordable housing for affected households. But grantees still had to bear relocation costs and pay
subsidies to hold the shelter costs of the displaced individuals to 30 percent of income or less for five years.
Grantees could offer such households the alternative of a lump-sum payment of equal value.
The anti-displacement regulations were scheduled to take effect on Oct. 1, 1988.
Nehemiah Program. Authorized $25 million in fiscal 1988 and $ 100  million in fiscal 1989 for the Housing
Opportunity Grant program, called the Nehemiah program after its Brooklyn, N.Y., prototype. The program offered grants
to non-profit entities that administered interest-free home loans with down payments of 10 percent. The authorization
was to end after two years.
The loans were to be available on one-to-four-family buildings. To qualify, a family had to earn no more than the
median income for a family of four in the area. Where local governments could demonstrate to HUD that an
exception was necessary for neighborhood stability, up to 15 percent of the families in a given project could earn up
to 115 percent of that median.
Enterprise Zones. Authorized HUD to designate 100  enterprise zones in which state and local governments were
willing to cooperate in reducing taxes, governmental fees and bureaucratic involvement while increasing the delivery of
public services to encourage economic development.
The bill required that one-third of these 100  designated zones had to be located in non-metropolitan areas or
areas with populations of less than 50,000.
The zones had to retain their designation for 25 years, with reviews every four years. The bill provided $1 million
each year for the program.
Federal Mortgage Insurance
Permanent FHA Insurance Authority. Granted permanent authority to the Federal Housing Administration to insure
home mortgage loans.
Principal Insurance Limit. Authorized the FHA to insure $ 100  billion in principal insurance in fiscal 1988 and $104
billion in fiscal year 1989.
Permanent Authority for FNMA. Granted permanent authority to the Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA) to
purchase second mortgages on single-family properties.
Extend GNMA Authority. Authorized the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) to provide secondary
mortgage market financing to FHA and Veterans Administration home loans to a ceiling of $150 billion in fiscal 1988 and
7/3/09 11:49 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 13http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal87-1144361&type=hitlist&num=3
mortgage market financing to FHA and Veterans Administration home loans to a ceiling of $150 billion in fiscal 1988 and
$156 billion in fiscal 1989.
FHA Credit Check. Required the FHA to perform a credit check on any purchaser assuming an existing FHA mortgage
loan.
Increased FHA Insurance of ARMs. Increased the insurance authority of FHA on adjustable rate mortgages (ARMs) to
equal 30 percent of the previous year's insurance volume.
Home Equity Conversions for Elderly. Created a demonstration program allowing the elderly to meet housing or other
basic costs by converting a portion of their equity to cash. The bill would cap variable interest rates on such conversion
loans at 5 points above the original rate.
Background
Congress was unable for seven years to enact a freestanding authorization bill for federal housing programs due to
disagreements between congressional Democrats and Republicans. Democrats wanted to protect existing programs,
while the Republicans backed administration proposals to cut housing funds. Instead, housing programs limped
along through a series of stopgap funding measures.
But with Democrats back in control of the Senate, housing proponents believed they had their best chance in years
to break the logjam.
Cranston, chairman of the Senate Banking Subcommittee on Housing and Urban Affairs, made passage of a
housing authorization bill one of his top legislative priorities for the year. Cranston said the bill would be a first step
toward a “major reformulation” of federal housing and community development programs, which he planned for the
following year.
Critics of the Reagan administration argued that housing programs had suffered deeper cuts since 1981 than any
other part of the federal budget. They noted that during fiscal 1981-87, appropriations for federally assisted housing
programs dropped from $31.9 billion to $9.4 billion.
Reagan proposed in his fiscal 1988 budget request that $11 billion be spent on all federal housing programs, a
reduction of about $4 billion.
Senate Committee Action
A two-year, $38.3 billion reauthorization of federal housing programs was approved March 12 by the Senate
Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee (S Rept 100 -21). The vote was 14-4.
Republican opponents, admitting they lacked the votes in committee, withheld several amendments to cut the cost
and scope of the bill, which largely froze funding at existing levels. William L. Armstrong, R-Colo., said he was saving
his ammunition for battle in the full Senate. “One way or the other, I assume we will argue this on the floor,”
Armstrong said.
For the most part, the measure duplicated a compromise worked out the previous year between then-Chairman
Garn and Henry B. Gonzalez, D-Texas, chairman of the House Banking Subcommittee on Housing and Community
Development. That agreement, which passed the House but not the Senate, called for a funding freeze in existing
programs; a modest expansion of the aid formula in the UDAG economic development program; creation of a new
“fair housing initiative” to fight racial discrimination; and a Nehemiah grant program. (1986 Almanac p. 585)
The committee's new bill authorized $18.8 billion in fiscal 1988 and $19.5 billion in fiscal 1989 for housing programs
administered by HUD. Because it largely froze programs at existing levels without an inflation adjustment, aides said
the bill would reduce “real” HUD funding by about $1.8 billion over the two-year period.
Among the annual funding levels authorized were $7.5 billion for Section 8 subsidized housing grants, $1.6 billion to
operate low-income housing projects and $3 billion for CDBGs.
In addition to the major agreements on a budget freeze, UDAG and Nehemiah grants, the bill would have:
Provided permanent authority for the FHA home mortgage insurance program.
Permanently authorized the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (PL 94-200), requiring lenders to disclose total mortgage
costs and other information to home buyers and the public.
Prohibited so-called “user fees” proposed by Reagan on federal mortgage insurance or guarantee programs, including
the FHA program.
Created a new program to help elderly homeowners convert the equity in their homes into a source of income.
Other Provisions
7/3/09 11:49 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 13http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal87-1144361&type=hitlist&num=3
The bill included a section to encourage tenant management of public housing projects, leading eventually to tenant
ownership of the units. In addition, flood insurance programs were extended through fiscal 1989, and premium rate
increases were limited to JO percent a year.
The bill also required that Section 8 rental housing certificates for tenants be issued for 15-year terms, blocking the
Reagan administration's tendency to issue short-term certificates to save money. Section 8 “fair market rent”
increases paid by HUD to landlords of low-income housing were to be adjusted annually, to avoid previous delays of
up to 18 months. Operating subsidies to local public housing authorities were increased to help cover costs.
Rental rehabilitation and housing development grants were authorized at $320 million a year, with rehabilitation cost
caps raised from $5,000 per unit to $7,500 for two-bedroom units and $8,500 for larger units.
To control fraud, HUD was allowed to obtain the Social Security or employer identification numbers of recipients of
housing assistance to verify that they qualified for aid.
Housing for the handicapped was reauthorized, with eligibility requirements eased for developers of small group
homes for the handicapped. The Congregate Services program, which paid to bring food, housekeeping and other
in-home services to the elderly, was continued at $7 million in fiscal 1988 and $13 million in fiscal 1989.
Rural housing programs were to be reauthorized at existing levels, with the definition of “very-low-income” families
expanded to help more people in the South and Southwest.
By 11-7, the committee defeated an amendment by Phil Gramm, R-Texas, designed to improve HUD enforcement of
a law that banned public housing assistance to illegal aliens. Gramm criticized HUD for ignoring the law for the
previous six years, but others said that enforcement could be unduly expensive and that HUD should be allowed to
retain its current authority to waive the requirement.
Senate Floor Action
The Senate March 31 passed the two-year, $31.2 billion omnibus authorization bill, despite warnings from critics
that the measure was “veto bait.” The vote was 71-27. (Vote 49, p. 12-S)
Although the bill was reported by the Banking Committee at a cost of $38.3 billion, staffers said about $7 billion in
automatic spending was no longer counted in the bill's total, leaving the cost at $31.2 billion.
While Minority Leader Robert Dole, R-Kan., referred to the housing package as “yet another budget buster,” other
members praised its budgetary restraint.
“This bill is fiscally responsible,” said Cranston. “It holds the line through fiscal 1989 with an across-the-board
funding freeze.”
During two days of debate March 30–31, the Senate acted on amendments by:
Don Nickles, R-Okla., defeated 44–54, to eliminate the Nehemiah program. (Vote 46, p. 11-S)
Nichols criticized Nehemiah as “a brand-new entitlement program … we cannot afford.” But D'Amato, whose state
pioneered the program, said “the results have been spectacular” when it was tried in New York City.
Harry Reid, D-Nev., rejected 43–55, to reduce from 30 percent to 25 percent, of adjusted gross income the annual
rental contribution required of senior citizens receiving low-income housing assistance. (Vote 47, p. 11-S)
Gordon J. Humphrey, R-N.H., rejected 23–75, to terminate the UDAG program. (Vote 48, p. 11-S)
Humphrey renewed criticism of UDAG as “corporate welfare,” because the program subsidized the cost of development
projects. Proponents said UDAG generated about. $8 in private investment for every federal dollar spent, and helped
depressed cities rebuild blighted areas.
Frank R. Lautenberg, D-N.J., agreed to by voice vote, requiring HUD to provide at least 90 days' advance notice and an
appeals process for local communities that were about to lose UDAG funding.
Donald W. Riegle Jr., D-Mich., adopted 75-0, on behalf of the Banking Committee, making numerous technical
changes. (Vote 45, p. 11-S).
Major elements of the amendment included provisions to permanently authorize housing vouchers; require public
housing agencies to make annual adjustments in rental assistance for low-income tenants in high-rent areas, and to
establish an “adjustment pool” of funds to prevent “rent shocks” from being passed on to tenants; impose a two-year,
$6 million cap on individual UDAG projects; allow the use of CDBG funds for “911” emergency-number telephone
systems; increase the maximum mortgage amount that could be insured by the FHA for homes in high-cost areas
such as Boston and New York; and extend the comment period on proposed regulations that would restrict the
placement of mobile homes and recreational vehicles in flood areas.
7/3/09 11:49 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 13http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal87-1144361&type=hitlist&num=3
As passed by the Senate, S 825 authorized $15.6 billion each year in fiscal 1988-89.
House Subcommittee
A $17.7 billion omnibus housing authorization bill for fiscal 1988 cleared its first hurdle in the House after an initial
proposal was cut about 25 percent to stay within budget guidelines. The Banking Subcommittee on Housing and
Community Development approved the bill (HR 4) by voice vote April 29.
As offered by subcommittee Chairman Henry B. Gonzalez, D-Texas, the bill would have reauthorized existing housing
and community development programs, and created a few new ones, for a total cost of $23.6 billion.
But pressure from subcommittee Democrats forced Gonzalez.to draft a substitute that trimmed almost $6 billion,
mostly from housing voucher and public housing programs, to stay within the limits of the House-passed fiscal 1988
budget resolution (H Con Res 93).
Major provisions of HR 4 included:
Homeless. $350 million for food and shelter grants for the homeless.
Housing Assistance. Total funding for HUD housing programs of $10.9 billion, about $400 million more than
existing levels. The total included $5.9 billion for Section 8 subsidized housing certificates and vouchers; $1.98
billion for public and Indian housing: and $1.6 billion for public housing operating subsidies.
Rural Housing. Rural housing loan and rental assistance programs under the FmHA of $3.6 billion, about $ 100
million below existing levels.
Mortgage Programs. Permanent FHA mortgage insurance authority and an increase in its annual loan credit limit to
$ 100  billion. The credit limit for the Government National Mortgage Association mortgage guarantee program
would have been set at $150 billion. Both were slight decreases from existing levels.
Community Development. The UDAG economic development program, continued at its existing level of $225
million. The CDBG program was to be continued at $3 billion.
New Programs. A total of $ 100  million for the Nehemiah program. The “Fair Housing Initiative” sought by
Reagan to combat housing discrimination would have received $5 million, as would a new program to fund child
care in public housing projects.
The bill also would have authorized HUD to designate 100  “enterprise zones” to encourage the location of
businesses in distressed urban and rural areas. However, the provision was largely symbolic, since the bill provided
no federal tax or other incentives to firms that located in the zones.
The bill also contained provisions to prevent the displacement of low-income tenants and encourage private
developers of subsidized rental housing to keep the projects available for low-income tenants.
Contentious Issues Postponed
During two days of markup April 28–29, the most contentious issues were passed over for action later in full
committee or on the House floor.
Perhaps the most controversial was an amendment withdrawn by Steve Bartlett, R-Texas, to prohibit funding for
construction of most new public housing; instead, construction money was to be used for renovation and
rehabilitation of existing units — a major shift in federal housing policy. Bartlett argued that rehabilitation was a
much more efficient use of limited federal funds and would make more units available at a lower cost.
But Gonzalez objected to taking any funds away from public housing, which, he said, “is the only thing we have to
house the very poor,” and “is on a starvation diet anyway.”
The subcommittee defeated, 14–24, a similar amendment by Tom Ridge, R-Pa., transferring $125 million in new
construction funds to rental rehabilitation.
Two other Bartlett amendments, expanding the ability of well-run resident-management corporations to buy and sell
public housing units, were defeated 15–23 and 16–20.
The only amendment that added money to the bill was one by Bruce F. Vento, D-Minn., agreed to by voice vote, to
raise the amount authorized for the “congregate services” nutrition program for handicapped and elderly tenants
from $8 million to $13 million. Vento said the $5 million increase would be offset later with a cut in some other
program.
An amendment by John Hiler, R-Ind., agreed to 20-17, struck a section of the bill that would have required mobile
homes to meet minimum heating efficiency standards.
Other Amendments
7/3/09 11:49 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 13http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal87-1144361&type=hitlist&num=3
Among the less controversial amendments agreed to, mostly by voice vote, were those by:
Gonzalez, ending the “demonstration” nature of HUD's housing voucher program, in which low-income tenants used
vouchers like cash to help pay the rent on housing they found on their own, and limiting the fees that could be charged
by FmHA for rural rental housing loans.
Gonzalez, allowing CDBG loan guarantees for housing rehabilitation.
Gonzalez, making East Cleveland, Ohio, eligible for CDBG assistance.
Banking Committee Chairman Fernand J. St Germain, D-R.I., requiring HUD to issue guidelines for private testing
activities conducted under the Fair Housing Initiative program. St Germain said this amendment was a compromise
between HUD and the real estate industry, which had opposed the program in the past.
Barney Frank, D-Mass., allowing HUD to provide low-interest-rate loans (between 3–6 percent) to private owners of
subsidized multifamily housing projects in order to bring the units into compliance with health and safety codes.
Frank, creating a new direct-loan program to prevent default in subsidized multifamily housing projects.
Frank, prohibiting CDBG projects from displacing low- and moderate-income tenants.
George C. Wortley, R-N.Y., allowing public housing projects to use up to 15 percent of their elderly and handicapped
housing units, if not occupied, for eligible “near-elderly” tenants (between 50–61 years of age).
Joseph P. Kennedy II, D-Mass., allowing public housing agencies to retain 100  percent of the savings from utility
cost-reduction programs (the existing limit was 50 percent).
Kennedy, requiring developers to give a one-year notice to tenants and federal and local officials of intent to prepay
subsidized mortgages and convert a rental housing project into unsubsidized high-priced units.
Kennedy, agreed to 24-14, requiring developers who sought to prepay their subsidized mortgages to negotiate with non-
profit groups seeking to purchase the building for low-income housing. Critics said this might violate existing contracts
between developers and HUD, but Kennedy said his amendment would require only negotiations and not a sale.
Richard H. Lehman, D-Calif., raising the FHA maximum insurable mortgage in high-cost urban areas from $90,000 to
$101,250.
Thomas J. Manton, D-N.Y., making several changes to facilitate the financing of public non-profit hospitals that served
primarily the poor.
Marge Roukema, R-N.J., establishing a 90-day appeals period after HUD denied or canceled a UDAG application.
Ridge, imposing a one-year moratorium on new flood-control restrictions on mobile-home parks proposed by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency.
House Full Committee
On a straight party-line vote of 29-19, the House Banking Committee May 19 approved a $17.3 billion bill (H Rept 
100 –122) to reauthorize federal housing and community development programs for fiscal 1988. The White
House threatened to veto the bill if it was enacted in that form.
The largest funding change made by the full committee to the subcommittee version was the elimination of $350
million for homeless-aid programs. Separate legislation (HR 558) authorizing $500 million for the homeless was
pending in a House-Senate conference and later enacted. (Homeless aid, p. 506)
Like the Senate bill, the House measure essentially froze housing funds at existing levels, but the House bill
provided a small adjustment for inflation.
Although several committee members noted growing bipartisan support for housing programs, the major issues were
decided along party lines.
The most intense political sniping occurred over a substitute amendment by the committee's ranking Republican,
Chalmers P. Wylie of Ohio, to cut almost $2 billion from the bill. That amendment failed on a 19–29 straight party-line
vote.
Wylie agreed with committee Democrats that “the White House proposal [of $11 billion] is unrealistically low,” but he
and other Republicans warned that $17 billion for housing would be vetoed by Reagan.
Committee Democrats loudly objected to Wylie's proposal to cut $2.8 billion from Section 8 rent subsidy certificates,
and to add $1.4 billion for housing “vouchers,” which low-income tenants could use like cash to find housing on their
7/3/09 11:49 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 9 of 13http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal87-1144361&type=hitlist&num=3
and to add $1.4 billion for housing “vouchers,” which low-income tenants could use like cash to find housing on their
own.
Section 8 subsidies were favored by housing program proponents because they helped maintain rental units for
low-income tenants, and also limited tenants' housing costs to no more than 30 percent of income.
Vouchers were criticized because they did not limit tenants' housing costs, and because they were difficult to use in
high-rent urban areas. The administration asserted that vouchers could help more tenants at a lower administrative
cost.
Major Amendments
Among other major amendments offered were those by:
Bartlett, defeated 23-23, which would have allowed HUD to replace demolished public housing with additional rental
subsidies, instead of new units. Most Democrats favored a one-for-one replacement of low-income housing stock.
Bartlett, agreed to by voice vote, prohibiting the construction of most new public housing unless 85 percent or more of a
community's public housing units met minimum housing standards.
A similar amendment by Ridge, to transfer $ 100  million from rental subsidies to rehabilitation, was defeated 20–28.
Carroll Hubbard Jr., D-Ky., approved 27-19, to reverse an earlier subcommittee vote and require new mobile homes to
meet minimum heating efficiency standards.
Charles E. Schumer, D-N.Y., adopted 29-19, permanently extending federal crime insurance to small businesses in
high-crime urban areas.
Esteban Edward Torres, D-Calif., agreed to by voice vote, allowing rental rehabilitation funds to be used to bring one-
room or one-bedroom subsidized housing units up to local earthquake standards. Torres said this was in response to an
ordinance adopted by the City of Los Angeles requiring housing to meet certain earthquake standards.
Kennedy, agreed to by voice vote, establishing a schedule for negotiations between developers who prepaid their
subsidized mortgages and non-profit groups seeking to purchase the buildings for continued use as low-income
housing.
Kennedy, agreed to by voice vote, allowing income to the federal government from prepaid or sold subsidized
mortgages to be used to preserve low-income housing.
Robert Garcia. D-N.Y., agreed to by voice vote, allowing funds for the Neighborhood Development Demonstration
Program to be used for projects to house the homeless.
Frank, agreed to by voice vote, prohibiting UDAG projects from being used to displace low-income tenants. Similar
language in the bill prohibited displacement of tenants by CDBG projects.
Marcy Kaptur, D-Ohio, agreed to by voice vote, prohibiting community development funds from being used to increase
business for foreign firms.
Thomas R. Carper. D-Del., agreed to by voice vote, requiring the removal of all lead-based paint from federally
subsidized housing and defective (chipping) lead-based paint from FHA-insured housing. Also, FHA-insured homes built
before 1978 would have to be tested for lead-based paint and the results disclosed to buyers as part of the sales
process. The amendment would have allowed 5 percent of CDBG funds to be used for the program.
Roukema, agreed to by voice vote, establishing a schedule of flood insurance payments to owners of coastal properties
condemned because of wave erosion.
Bruce A. Morrison. D-Conn., agreed to by voice vote, lowering from 250 to 125 the number of housing units that could
be constructed in a Nehemiah project.
Kaptur, agreed to by voice vote, lowering from 10 percent to 5 percent the down payment required of families buying
homes under the Nehemiah program.
Schumer, agreed to by voice vote, giving priority to assisted-housing tenants seeking Nehemiah units, thereby opening
up additional space in subsidized housing projects.
Hiler, rejected by voice vote, giving special consideration under the UDAG award formula for projects that utilized vacant
industrial buildings. According to staffers, this would have applied to an abandoned Studebaker auto plant in Hiler's
district.
Schumer, rejected by voice vote, extending coverage of the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, to commercial loans. The
law, designed to prevent racial discrimination, applied to home mortgages. Schumer said his proposal was intended to
improve access to credit by minority-owned small businesses. Critics said the provisions would go beyond the original
intent of the law.
7/3/09 11:49 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 10 of 13http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal87-1144361&type=hitlist&num=3
House Floor Action
The House June 11 shunned White House veto threats and passed a $16 billion housing reauthorization measure
for fiscal 1988. The vote on HR 4 was 285-120. (Vote 178, p. 56-H)
Forty-nine Republicans deserted party ranks and voted for final passage after two days of floor debate characterized
by partisan division on key points of the bill.
Yet Democratic leaders of the Banking Subcommittee on Housing and Community Development interpreted the final
margin as a sign that Congress would enact regular housing authorization legislation for the first time since 1980.
“It was a veto-override vote,” said Chairman Gonzalez. “It showed the overwhelming and preponderant desire of
members of the House to enact an authorization bill.”
Gonzalez said he planned to ask for a conference with the Senate to work out the differences between the two
bills. The most contentious issue would be the cost of the House measure, the point on which the Reagan
administration had made repeated veto threats. James C. Miller III, director of the Office of Management and Budget,
reiterated the promise in a June H) letter to Wylie, ranking GOP member of the Banking Committee.
The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimated that HR 4, as passed by the committee May 19, would require
$15.9 billion in new budget authority. That differed from the committee's original cost estimates largely because rural
housing programs were funded through a revolving loan account, which did not require new budget authority for the
full amount of the programs provided in the bill.
Additional Costs
In floor action June 10–11, the House adopted two amendments that added to the cost of HR 4.
On a 284-137 vote, the members adopted an amendment by Kenneth J. Gray, D-Ill., to reduce from 30 percent to 25
percent of adjusted gross income the amount that elderly tenants of public housing projects had to pay toward their
rent. CBO estimated Gray's provision would cost $550 million, although committee leaders insisted that as little as
one-third of that amount would be required because the costs could be absorbed by existing unused budget
authority. (Vote 171, p. 54-H)
The House also adopted by voice vote an amendment by James A. Traficant Jr., D-Ohio, to create a $30 million
counseling program for homeowners threatened by foreclosure as a result of external circumstances, such as plant
closings.
House Republicans made a number of attempts to cut the cost of the bill but were beaten back on largely party-line
votes. Wylie offered a substitute amendment that he said would cut funding to $14.2 billion, mainly by focusing
spending on housing rehabilitation programs rather than on new construction, and by using more vouchers that
allowed recipients to seek out their own rental housing rather than live in units subsidized directly by the federal
government. Wylie's amendment was rejected, 179–246, with all but 10 Republicans voting for the substitute and
only 15 Democrats voting against it. (Vote 169, p. 54-H)
Gonzalez blunted some of the opposition to HR 4 with a block of amendments designed to win conservative support.
Among the amendments, adopted by voice vote, were provisions for giving economically depressed areas, such as
oil producing states, priority in getting housing certificates and vouchers.
The House rejected a proposal by Jack F. Kemp, R-N.Y., to let public housing tenants buy their units at 25 percent of
fair market value. The Banking Committee's most facile debaters, liberals Frank, Schumer and Morrison, took the
offensive by maintaining the provision would not prohibit tenants from selling their units to land speculators.
Morrison won a vote, 258-161, giving tenants the right to buy their units but otherwise negating Kemp's discount
program. The House later defeated Kemp's amendment, 162–243. (Votes 172, 177, pp. 54-H, 56-H)
Conference
House-Senate conferees, intent on passing the first freestanding authorization for federal housing programs since
1980, cleared much of the underbrush Sept. 17 with a package agreement on more than 200 mostly minor
differences between their respective bills.
The package was the product of negotiations among staff and groups of members after the conference had an
initial meeting, Aug. 4.
But a number of crucial differences remained between conferees and with the White House. As a result, Congress
passed and President Reagan signed a joint resolution (S J Res 191 — PL 100 -122) the week of Sept. 28
extending until Oct. 31 the authority of the FHA to insure home loans. The authority was scheduled to expire Sept.
30. This was the first of five such temporary extensions passed before Congress cleared the housing authorization
bill.
7/3/09 11:49 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 11 of 13http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal87-1144361&type=hitlist&num=3
Meeting Oct. 20, House-Senate conferees tentatively agreed to a two-year authorization term and to set a $15.36
billion annual spending level, to be adjusted for inflation in the second year.
The spending agreement reflected efforts by conferees to strike a compromise with Reagan, who had indicated he
would veto the bill at the higher levels. Conferees agreed that, if other matters of interest to the White House could
be resolved, they would discuss a still-lower figure that might induce the president to sign the legislation.
Wylie, ranking Republican on the House side of the conference, said he and party colleagues had discussed a
figure as high as $14.7 billion with White House officials. But he said he could not guarantee that Reagan would
sign for that much. However, Wylie said, if the Democratic majorities on both sides of the conference were willing to
go down to $15 billion, the conference's Republicans and the House GOP leadership would support a veto override.
“We think $15 billion is about the bottom line,” Wylie told the conference. “We would then attempt with enthusiasm
to see that enacted.”
Cranston said he would be willing to “revisit the voice vote” by which the funding level was approved — “if there's
nothing else to veto the bill for.”
Nehemiah Changes
However, the administration and Republicans remained opposed to a number of new initiatives in the legislation,
including the Nehemiah program.
At the Oct. 20 session, Rep. Roukema was rebuffed in her attempt to remove Nehemiah from the bill. The program
was controversial, in part, because it assisted households earning up to 115 percent of the median income in target
areas.
The conference did agree to a modification, sought by some senators, stipulating that no more than 30 percent of
the participating households could have incomes in the range of 100  percent to 115 percent of the median
amount.
Also agreed to Oct. 20 — with leeway for further modifications in the conference report — was a complex response
to the problem of expiring loan agreements between the government and owners of subsidized housing. Some
landlords' agreements with HUD and the FmHA permitted them to prepay their loans after a specified period. Once
they did so, the landlords could rent the units at market rates. Federal officials feared the ripening of these
agreements could lead to widespread conversions, forcing thousands of low-income families out of their homes.
Conferees agreed to include a series of discouragements and inducements to prevent prepayment by owners
seeking to remove low-income tenants. Anticipating that a court suit might invalidate that approach, the conferees
also approved a backup two-year moratorium on accepting prepayments.
Labor, Displacement Plans
Skirmishing at an Oct. 27 meeting of conferees highlighted other hot spots in the bill.
Rep. Vento of Minneapolis introduced a controversial amendment at the session to apply Davis-Bacon wage
standards to all work “integrally and proximately related” to a federally aided community-development project. Davis-
Bacon required that prevailing local wages be paid on all federally funded construction. Since 1985, HUD and the
Department of Labor had been at odds over HUD's refusal to apply Davis-Bacon to costs such as architectural fees.
The Department of Justice ruled in favor of HUD in August.
House conferees, led by St Germain, supported Vento on a vote of 11-8. Cranston accepted the amendment on
behalf of Senate conferees but noted that several not present were opposed to it. Eventually, Vento withdrew the
amendment amid concerns that it might cost the veto-override effort crucial votes.
Another issue also proved contentious. The House bill included a plan, sponsored by Rep. Frank requiring
community-development project sponsors to provide a unit of replacement housing for each unit of low-income
housing the project eliminated. Frank also wanted aid for those who, while not directly displaced, could not afford
the higher rents caused by a nearby, federally aided project.
The Senate conferees resisted the plan and Frank agreed to 10 years of guaranteed housing and 5 years of
financial help for the displaced, half the commitment periods he had sought. And he agreed to delay implementing
the rent-increase displacement, provision until Oct. 1, 1988.
Still under pressure from Republicans to reduce the cost of the bill, conferees reached final agreement Nov. 6 on a
package that would authorize $15 billion in fiscal 1988 and $15.36 billion in fiscal 1989.
Final Action
The conference report (H Rept 100 –426) was adopted by the House on Nov. 9 by a vote of 391-1. (Vote 417,
p. 128-H)
The Senate had been expected to follow suit, with a bipartisan majority favoring adoption. But the bill's managers
7/3/09 11:49 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 12 of 13http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal87-1144361&type=hitlist&num=3
The Senate had been expected to follow suit, with a bipartisan majority favoring adoption. But the bill's managers
were unable Nov. 13 to muster the necessary 60 votes to waive a point of order raised against the conference
report because it exceeded limits set by the fiscal 1988 congressional budget resolution (H Con Res 93). A decision
was then made to return to the issue the following week.
The point of order that derailed the conference report was raised by Republican Armstrong of Colorado. Armstrong
said three minor provisions, taken together, would push the bill $47 million past the spending level allowed by the
current budget resolution, a violation of Section 311 of the 1974 Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control
Act.
Armstrong said the bill would violate the Budget Act in other particulars as well, but that he would focus on the
Section 311 matter in order to test the will of the Senate.
Aided by fellow Republicans Gramm of Texas and Garn of Utah, Armstrong succeeded in casting the vote on the
subsequent motion to waive the budget act as a referendum on deficit spending.
Proponents argued that S 825 would actually save money because it authorized less spending than was
appropriated for the new fiscal year in a separate appropriations bill approved by both the House and Senate (HR
2783). Backers of S 825 also contended that the bill's vulnerability to the point of order was only a technicality.
Cranston said the same point of order could be lodged against any authorization bill until the adoption of a budget-
cutting “reconciliation” bill. (HUD appropriations, p. 433)
But the vote to waive the budget was 53-40, falling seven votes shy of the necessary three-fifths majority. (Vote
376, p. 65-S)
By contrast with the Senate action, the adoption of the report in the House was a love feast, with conferees from
both parties praising the bill and each other. If anything, enthusiasm was more muted on the Democratic side,
where several members objected to the trimming of $900 million from the original House-approved bill.
Second Waiver Vote
In a second test vote in the Senate Nov. 17, sponsors fell three votes short of the 60 votes needed to waive the
budget act. The vote was 57-43. (Vote 380, p. 65-S)
Cranston tried unsuccessfully to obviate the point of order by removing the $47 million. He proposed an
extraordinary procedure (amending the enrollment of the bill prior to adoption of the report) requiring unanimous
consent. But Armstrong, after congratulating Cranston on the gambit, objected.
Cranston immediately said Armstrong's objections showed that he and his allies were using budget-law objections
as a cloak for opposition to the housing bill itself.
The Senate action not. only scotched the conference agreement with the House, it also dimmed hopes that, the
Senate could override a presidential veto if a bill was eventually approved. Senators on both sides attributed the
bill's setback to the timing of the vote, which asked senators to waive budget-law spending restraints at the same
time congressional leaders and White House officials were negotiating a budget-deficit-reduction deal down the hall.
Staffers for Senate conferees began meeting immediately to discuss how the substance of the conference
agreement, or something closely resembling it, might be salvaged in a form the Senate could approve.
But House Democrats immediately vowed to defend their programs in a caucus held Nov. 19. “We are not going to
negotiate a new bill,” said Schumer. Frank said the House conferees would rather wait until January or February of
1988 to bring the bill back to the floor, if the alternative was to sacrifice new programs.
Final Push
Nevertheless, Senate sponsors and their staffs spent the first weeks of December revising the legislation and
recruiting support among Senate Republicans. Meanwhile, Armstrong began preparing a substitute to S 825 that
would eliminate nearly all the new rules and programs, cut the open-ended authorization language and eliminate
several existing programs reauthorized under the bill.
Cranston and D'Amato sought help from Republicans Domenici and Garn. who had opposed the conference
agreement but were perceived as willing to negotiate. Garn and Domenici did pitch in on a compromise plan, but
the effort, stalled when the White House Dec. 16 produced a new set of provisions it wanted in the bill before the
president would support the legislation. Later that day, Cranston declared on the Senate floor that the measure was
dead for the year.
Within hours, however, Cranston and Domenici were talking again. They met with D'Amato and Garn again on Dec.
18, revived an earlier compromise plan with the White House revisions and gave the whole package to St Germain.
chairman of the House Banking Committee. In a written response the same day, St Germain refused to discuss the
package.
But Cranston called St Germain on the morning of Dec. 19 and jump-started the talks. Several participants observed
that once St Germain had committed himself to producing a change of heart in the House, the movement toward a
compromise gained momentum.
7/3/09 11:49 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 13 of 13http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal87-1144361&type=hitlist&num=3
In turn, St Germain got what he had sought, for months: a call from Howard H. Baker Jr., the White House chief of
staff, assuring him that Reagan would go along once a specific set of changes was in place.
Conference Amendments
Among the salient amendments to the conference report that were made in the session's final days were:
A two-year limit on the Nehemiah program, and a reduction in its proposed funding from $150 million a year to $25
million in fiscal 1988 and $ 100 million in fiscal 1989.
A provision that Nehemiah loans be limited to those making no more than the median income fur their area. The
secretary of HUD was given discretion to use up to 15 percent of the money available for participants earning up to 115
percent of the median.
A limit on displacement benefits so that only low-income tenants directly displaced by luxury developments in areas with
a shortage of low-income housing would be eligible.
Elimination of lead-based paint abatement requirements for privately owned, federally assisted housing.
Elimination of a proposed grant for a program transferring ownership of rural rental housing to non-profit organizations
and public agencies.
Elimination, or reduction in the effect, of provisions by which certain public-housing tenants would be allowed to pay less
than the required 30 percent of income for rent.
Elimination of a separate rural-housing-grants program sponsored by Reps. Hiler and Lehman.
Elimination of the Solar Bank, a $3 million financing mechanism for projects that employed solar energy.
Elimination of a direct-loan program to prevent defaults in FHA-insured multi-unit rental housing.
Termination at the end of fiscal 1989 of the Section 235 homeowner assistance program, which provided mortgage
insurance and interest subsidies for low-income and moderate-income home buyers.
Termination of Housing Development Action Grants at the end of fiscal 1989.
A two-year sunset on a provision liberalizing federal flood insurance.
One of the most critical changes in the bill was the elimination of the $47 million in direct spending that exceeded
the budget limits. Also important was a clarification of the applicability of existing law to illegal aliens who lived in
public housing. The bill forbade housing assistance for such individuals, but it permitted local governments to
provide assistance to an illegal alien in a family where the head of the household or spouse was a citizen or a legal
alien. And it allowed local governments discretion to defer an eviction where needed for what Cranston called “an
orderly transition of tenants to other affordable housing.”
As part of its agreement with the White House, the Senate also passed, by voice vote, a separate bill (S 1994) to
prevent fraud and abuse in housing and urban development programs. The House did not take up S 1994 before
adjourning.
S 1994 would allow HUD to obtain a consent form from a program applicant, including the applicant's Social
Security or employer number, in the process of determining program eligibility. This was originally a provision of S
825, but sponsors made it a separate bill after the House Ways and Means Committee announced it would
otherwise assert jurisdiction over the entire housing bill.
Document Citation
"Housing Authorization Clears at Last Minute." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal87-1144361.
Originally published in CQ Almanac 1987 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1988).
http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal87-1144361 (accessed July 3, 2009).
Document ID: cqal87-1144361
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal87-1144361
© 1988, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
