7/3/09 12:08 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 1 of 2http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d101:HR01396:@@@D&summ2=m&|TOM:/bss/d101query.html|
The Library of Congress > THOMAS Home > Bills, Resolutions > Search Results
NEW SEARCH | HOME | HELP | ABOUT SUMMARIES
H.R.1396 
Title: To amend the Federal securities laws in order to facilitate cooperation between the United
States and foreign countries in securities law enforcement. 
Sponsor: Rep Markey, Edward J. [MA-7] (by request) (introduced 3/14/1989)      Cosponsors
(19) 
Related Bills: H.RES.483, H.R.1786, H.R.2780, S.CON.RES.82, S.1712 
Latest Major Action: 11/15/1990 Became Public Law No: 101-550.
SUMMARY AS OF: 
10/23/1990--Conference report filed in House.    (There are 4 other summaries)
Securities Acts Amendments of 1990 - Title I: Authorization - Securities and Exchange
Commission Authorization Act of 1990 - Amends the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to
authorize appropriations to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for FY 1990 and
1991. Authorizes the SEC to lease real property for office purposes. Exempts such leasing
activity from General Services Administration space management regulations or directives.
Title II: International Securities Law Enforcement - International Securities Enforcement
Cooperation Act of 1990 - Amends the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to authorize the SEC to
provide record information to both foreign and domestic persons if the recipient provides
appropriate assurances of confidentiality.
Declares that the SEC shall not be compelled to disclose records obtained from a foreign
securities authority which has represented that their public disclosure would violate the laws
applicable to that authority.
Amends the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Investment Company Act of 1940 to
authorize the SEC to restrict the activities of brokers, dealers, investment advisers (and
associated persons) who have violated foreign securities laws.
Extends the definition of statutory disqualification to include foreign violations (thus bringing
violators of foreign laws under the same umbrella of restrictions as violators of U.S. law).
Amends the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to authorize the SEC to accept payment and
reimbursement from a foreign securities authority for expenses incurred in providing assistance
to such authority.
Title III: Shareholder Communications - Shareholder Communications Improvement Act of
1990 - Amends the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to include within the purview of SEC proxy
regulations any security issued by an investment company registered under the Investment
Company Act of 1940.
Title IV: Trust Indenture Act of 1939 - Trust Indenture Reform Act of 1990 - Amends the
Trust Indenture Act of 1939 to authorize the SEC to grant exemptions under the Act. Provides
that the SEC shall not be required to issue an order refusing registration, for failure to designate
an eligible trustee, of an indentured security which is to be transacted on a delayed basis, and
whose designated trustee is ineligible to act, if the securities issuer files an application to
determine such trustee's eligibility. Requires the SEC to issue such an order if a trustee is found
ineligible, but only after notice and opportunity for a hearing. Authorizes the SEC to permit a
person doing business under the laws of a foreign government to act as sole trustee if it
exercises corporate trust powers and is subject to foreign authority and supervision substantially
equivalent to that applicable to United States institutional trustees.
Prohibits an obligor (or any persons controlling, controlled by, or under common control with
such obligor) from serving as trustee upon indentured securities.
Revises the guidelines for disqualification of an indentured securities trustee to State that an
indenture trustee shall be deemed to have a conflicting interest if: (1) the indenture securities
are in default; and (2) the trustee becomes a creditor of the obligor. Declares that an indenture
trustee shall not be required to resign if it has sustained the burden of proving that an indenture
default may be cured or waived during a reasonable period and its stay of resignation will not
injure the interests of holders of the indenture securities. Provides that an indenture trustee
resignation shall become effective only upon the appointment of a successor trustee and such
successor's acceptance.
Revises guidelines regarding the preferential collections of claims against an obligor to provide
that in any case commenced under the Bankruptcy Act of July 1, 1898, all references to periods
of three months shall be deemed to be references to periods of four months.
Revises guidelines for reports by an indenture trustee to provide that such reports shall include
any change to: (1) indenture eligibility and qualifications; (2) property and funds physically in
the possession of the trustee; (3) any release or substitution of property subject to indenture
lien; and (4) specified indenture relationships.
Requires an indenture obligor to furnish annually to the indenture trustee certification from
certain principals regarding the obligor's compliance with indenture terms.
7/3/09 12:08 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 2 of 2http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d101:HR01396:@@@D&summ2=m&|TOM:/bss/d101query.html|
Provides that the indenture to be qualified shall automatically be deemed to provide: (1) that
fair market value property certification may be made by an officer or employee of the obligor;
and (2) specified duties and responsibilities of the indenture trustee.
Authorizes the indenture obligor to set a record date for purposes of determining the identity of
indenture security holders entitled to vote or consent to certain actions.
Declares that statutorily prescribed indenture duties imposed on any person: (1) shall be
deemed to retroactively and prospectively govern each qualified indenture; and (2) shall be
deemed to retroactively amend and supersede inconsistent provisions in previously qualified
indentures.
THOMAS Home | Contact | Accessibility | Legal | FirstGov
