8/10/09 2:08 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 6http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal90-1112386&type=hitlist&num=0
Stock Market and Financial
Services
2004 Stock Option Accountability
2001 SEC Law a Win for Wall Street
1999 Major Overhaul Enacted Of Rules
Governing the Financial Services
Industry
1998 Loophole Fix Moves Class-Action
Securities Suits From State to
Federal Courts
1998 Financial Services Overhaul Dies
in Senate, A Victim of Friendly
Fire
1997 Financial Services Overhaul Stalls
1996 Securities Regulation Provisions
1996 Financial Services Provisions
1996 Congress Streamlines Securities
Rules
1994 Other Securities-Related Bills
Considered in 1994
1994 Financial Services Trade Bill
Falters at Session's End
1993 Financial Services Bill Seeks To
Open Markets
1993 Bill Tightens Regulation of
Government Bond Market
1992 Government Securities Bill Is
Quashed
1991 Government Securities Bill
Considered
1990 Market Control Authority of the
Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) Increased
1990 Congress Passes Bills
Strengthening Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC)
1989 Securities Arbitration
1989 Market Reform Stalled
1988 Stock Market Regulation
1988 Insider-Trading Bill
1986 Securities Dealer Regulations
1985 Government Securities Firms
1982 Commodity Futures Trading Bill
Cleared
1980 Securities Investor Privacy
1977 Investor Protection
1975 Overhaul Of Securities Industry
Approved
1974 Rules Committee Blocks
Securities Bill
1974 Municipal Bonds Regulation
1973 Stock Exchange Membership
1973 Securities Transactions
1973 Securities Thefts
1973 Federal Financing Bank
1972 Securities Transactions
1972 Securities Industry
1971 Securities Thefts: Mafia Moves on
Wall Street
1971 Securities Industry
Boxscore
Legislation: Securities Market Reform
Act, PL 101–432 (HR 3657).
Major action: Signed, Oct. 15. Cleared by
House, Sept. 28; passed by Senate, Sept.
25. S 648 passed by Senate, Aug. 4; HR
3657 passed by House, June 5; HR 3656
passed by House, May 8.
Reports: Energy and Commerce (HR
3657: H Rpt 101–524; HR 3656: H Rpt
101–477); Finance (S 648: S Rpt 101–
300).
Market Control Authority of the Securities
and Exchange Commission (SEC) Increased
An article from CQ Almanac 1990
Document Outline
Background
Committee Action
Floor Action
Final Action
Features
Lawmakers took what they hoped would be a significant step toward
stabilizing securities trading by passing legislation to give regulators more
authority over the stock markets.
The bill (HR 3657), cleared by Congress on Sept. 28, sought to improve the
ability of securities regulators to limit major market disruptions, such as the
shock that struck the market in October 1987. President Bush signed the
legislation Oct. 16.
Passage of the bill was part of a broader congressional effort to rewrite
securities laws. Lawmakers also sent to the president a measure (S 647 —
PL 101–429) to establish new civil penalties for securities law violations and a
bill (HR 1396 — PL 101–550) to give the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) more authority to cooperate with foreign governments in
securities fraud investigations. (Securities enforcement, p. 193)
Congress failed, however, to
pass a bill to shift regulatory
control over stock-index
futures from the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission
(CFTC) to the SEC, as urged
by the Bush administration.
That impasse also killed the
CFTC's reauthorization
measure, which contained
some enforcement-
enhancement provisions.
(Stock-index futures, p. 194)
The provisions of the market
stabilization bill, largely
drawn from requests to
Congress submitted by the
SEC, required improved
clearance and settlement
procedures for stock and related options and futures transactions. The
objective was to make all financial markets more liquid.
The SEC was also granted the authority to close the nation's stock
exchanges in an emergency. Previously, presidential action was required to
halt trading.
Lawmakers also gave regulators authority to restrict so-called program trading
— a computer-driven trading technique — if it was shown to contribute to wild
price swings.
And the SEC was also given new tools to track transactions by large traders
— to better guard against market manipulation — and to monitor the financial
 
8/10/09 2:08 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 6http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal90-1112386&type=hitlist&num=0
1971 Securities Industry
1970 Securities Exemption
1970 Protection for Stockholders
1970 Mutual Funds: New Controls
After Four-Year Delay
1970 Congress Clears Securities
Investor Protection Bill
1969 Securities Hearings
1969 Mutual Funds
1968 Securities Disclosure
1968 Over-The-Counter Securities
1968 Institutional Investors Study
1967 Securities Disclosure
1967 Hearings Held on S.E.C. Bill to
Regulate Mutual Funds
1965 Securities Fees
1964 Controls Over Stock Issues and
Dealers Strengthened
1963 SEC Study Submitted; Senate
Approves Bill
1962 S.E.C. Activities
1955 Stock Market Study
1955 Government Securities
1954 Changes In SEC Law
— to better guard against market manipulation — and to monitor the financial
strength of brokerage houses. (Provisions, p. 191)
Background
The drive to pass stock-market reform legislation was largely spurred by the
508-point drop in the Dow Jones Industrial Average — a closely watched
market indicator — on Oct. 19, 1987. In all, over $1 trillion in paper wealth
was wiped out in one week that October.
The wild swings led lawmakers and regulators to look for ways to tighten
regulations and provide traders more information on the market.
The market disturbance — and the interplay between stocks and their
“derivative” instruments traded in the futures markets — were the subject of
several government studies and many examinations by the markets
themselves.
Most studies warned that without regulatory restructuring, the markets would
continue to be volatile. “We are looking down the barrel, and the gun is still
loaded,” said Nicholas F. Brady in 1988. Brady was chairman of the
Presidential Task Force on Market Mechanisms, which was formed by
President Ronald Reagan to study the 1987 disruption. In 1990, he was
serving in the Bush administration as secretary of the Treasury when the
stock market reform legislation cleared.
The Brady report, released in 1988, recommended that one agency, preferably the Federal Reserve Board, oversee
regulation of activities cutting across traditional market divisions arid that the clearance process for settling futures
and stock transactions be unified to reduce financial risk. In addition, the report recommended that margins for stock
and futures purchases be similar to control speculation and leverage and that trading be halted during wild market
swings.
In 1988 Senate Banking Committee Chairman William Proxmire, D-Wis., introduced legislation based loosely on the
Brady report to create an “intermarket coordinating committee” composed of the chairmen of the Federal Reserve,
the SEC and the CFTC. The committee would have been charged with coordinating clearance systems and
“harmonizing” margin requirements for stocks and futures contracts. (1988 Almanac, p. 253)
But the bill stalled after Promxire met resistance from heads of the three main market regulatory bodies. “Specific
legislative proposals mandating a new regulatory structure appear premature,” Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan said.
Stock-Index Futures
In the House, Energy and Commerce Finance Subcommittee Chairman Edward J. Markey, D-Mass., introduced a
measure that would have gone further than Proxmire's bill by shifting jurisdiction over stock-index futures from the
CFTC to the SEC.
Stock-index futures were a hybrid instrument, neither a commodity nor a security. But an agreement between the
SEC and CFTC enacted into law in 1982 gave the CFTC jurisdiction over index futures.
Markey immediately ran into opposition from rural lawmakers and representatives from Chicago, where the futures
markets were located. House Agriculture Committee member Dan Glickman, D-Kan., called the debate a “turf
battle…. Right now, if there was a battle between Energy and Commerce and Agriculture on this issue,” he said,
“Energy and Commerce would lose.”
Faced with opposition even within his own subcommittee, Markey never pushed action on the bill.
Conflicting Advice
One of the reasons Congress took three years to act on legislation was differing views on what caused market
volatility and what changes should be considered to counter them. Most observers believed that economic factors —
such as the trade deficit, interest rates and fear of inflation — had an effect on market stability.
Free-market advocates put almost all the blame on the “speculative bubble” that oversold the worth of the stock
investments. Market swings were just the stock market at work, they argued, adjusting market prices to reality.
Others believed that the volatility was caused by a breakdown in market mechanisms — led by the futures market
— and that those mechanisms had to be adjusted.
With conflicting advice, lawmakers were reluctant to make quick decisions on the best medicine for the markets,
although a market disturbance in October 1989 put more pressure on them to do so.
Members were also divided on restrictions on program trading — a collection of strategies involving the buying or
selling of large blocks of stock. Program trading relied on computers to execute mammoth buy or sell orders and to
tell investors when to take advantage of market conditions. It was blamed as a contributing cause of severe price
8/10/09 2:08 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 6http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal90-1112386&type=hitlist&num=0
tell investors when to take advantage of market conditions. It was blamed as a contributing cause of severe price
fluctuations, including the October 1987 and October 1989 market disruptions.
In 1989, both chambers began to focus on specific proposals on market regulation. In the Senate, Christopher J.
Dodd, D-Conn., introduced a bill to give the SEC authority to shut down markets for up to 90 days if necessary in an
emergency to protect investors and the public interest.
Markey introduced similar legislation in the House, with one major difference. Markey's bill would have authorized
the SEC to adopt rules to prevent stock price “manipulation” or “any practice” that had previously resulted in
excessive stock swings.
The language was intended to allow the SEC to restrict program trading. The Senate bill only called for the SEC to
study the issue.
Committee Action
Bills began moving through House and Senate committees in November 1989. The Senate Banking Committee
completed work on its legislation Nov. 16; a House subcommittee markup Nov. 14 was followed by full committee
approval of companion bills on March 13, 1990.
House Action
The House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Finance approved two market stabilization bills (HR 3656, HR
3657) by voice vote Nov. 14, 1989. Final congressional action combined the provisions of HR 3656 into HR 3657.
Debate in the markup centered on a section unique to the House bills to give the SEC new authority to attack
trading practices resulting in “high levels of volatility.”
Finance Subcommittee Chairman Markey had been pushing to give the SEC some limited authority to restrict
program trading.
The 190-point fall on Oct. 13, 1989, of the Dow Jones Industrial Average and the Dow's 88-point rise the next
trading day renewed interest in curbing wide price swings.
Markey's bill would have allowed the SEC to write regulations to constrain “manipulative, abusive or disruptive
practices” likely to unsettle the market excessively. The SEC would be able to impose stiff civil fines on firms or
individuals that violated its rules.
The administration agreed with everything but the word “disruptive.” In a letter to Markey, Treasury Under Secretary
Robert Glauber said the word “appears unusually vague” but signaled an intent to ban program trading altogether.
After a large contingent of Finance Subcommittee members from both sides of the aisle banded to oppose the
language, Markey agreed to drop it.
The full Energy and Commerce Committee took up the measures March 13 and approved both bills by voice vote.
The most controversial provision gave the SEC authority to stop certain securities trading strategies that involved
buying or selling large blocks of stock in a single order. For many market critics, program trading — the catchall term
for these strategies — had become synonymous with price instability.
Other elements of the bills were less controversial but still generated problems for Markey and the committee.
The bills gave the SEC enhanced authority to suspend trading in emergencies, to require reporting by large traders
about their activities, to collect data on the financial condition of some companies affiliated with brokerages and to
negotiate expedited clearance and settlement of securities and related transactions.
The clearance and settlement provision was aimed at closing transactions much more quickly than the five days
previously required, so investors would have quicker access to their money and the markets would stay “liquid.”
Provisions of Committee Bills
As approved by the Commerce Committee on March 13, HR 3656:
Directed the SEC to work with other market regulators, including the Federal Reserve Board and the CFTC, to devise a
linked or coordinated process to settle transactions across all markets. The SEC was required to report to Congress
within two years on its progress.
Authorized the SEC to develop uniform national regulations on transferring securities to allow for faster clearance and
settlement of securities transactions.
The SEC was authorized to write such rules even if they overrode state law on establishing liens and security interests
in property. But to override state law, the SEC had to consult with the Treasury secretary and the Fed. It also had to
find that the proposed regulation was necessary to protect investors or the public interest and that, without the
regulation, efforts for a coordinating clearance and settlement system would be “substantially impeded.”
8/10/09 2:08 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 6http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal90-1112386&type=hitlist&num=0
As approved by the panel, HR 3657:
Authorized the SEC to issue regulations restricting certain trading practices that it believed could manipulate prices or
that had led to excessive price swings in the past and were likely to do so again.
After determining which trading practices — chiefly presumed to be program-trading — were likely to destabilize market
prices, the SEC could restrict such practices during periods of “extraordinary market volatility.”
The SEC was authorized to issue cease-and-desist orders against traders that it believed were violating such rules or
were likely to do so. Failing to comply with cease-and-desist orders could lead to fines of up to $100,000 per person
and $500,000 per securities firm for each violation.
Amended existing law slightly to give the SEC authority to suspend trading on the securities markets for up to 90 days,
provided that the president notified the SEC that he did not disapprove. (Existing law required the president to approve
a trading suspension.) The president was authorized to reverse an order suspending trading.
The SEC was also given blanket emergency authority to suspend its own regulations or impose new rules for up to 10
days if necessary to protect or restore orderly markets or ensure safe clearance and settlement of transactions.
Required large traders, as defined by the SEC, to identify themselves and their accounts to the SEC and to brokerages
used by the trader.
Brokerages were required to maintain records on largetrader transactions that exceed SEC-specified levels and to
provide that information to the SEC when requested, including the day after a transaction. Information collected under
this provision would be confidential, although the SEC could provide it to Congress or other federal agencies.
Required securities brokerages and dealers to maintain records on financial risks of the brokerage's parent holding
company or any affiliated firm whose business activities might have a “material impact” on the financial condition of the
brokerage.
Records kept under this provision were to be available to the SEC, and the agency would be authorized to require
quarterly reports about the financial condition of affiliates that had significant financial dealings with the brokerage.
In cases of adverse market conditions or when the SEC believed a firm might have a financial problem, the SEC would
be authorized to request more detailed information on the financial condition of broker affiliates. The information
collected would be confidential, although the SEC could provide it to Congress or other federal agencies.
Senate Action
The Senate Banking Committee voted 20–1 on Nov. 16, 1989, to report its version of the legislation (S 648).
Members agreed to language that:
Allowed the SEC to order trading halts in “major market disturbances.”
Allowed the SEC to collect new information on securities firms making very large trades.
Required the SEC and the CFTC, along with the Federal Reserve and the Treasury, to develop coordinated and
expedited methods to settle stock and futures transactions to ease cash-flow problems.
Lawmakers were unsure how to address program trading. The panel accepted an amendment by Alfonse M. D'Amato,
R-N.Y., that asked the SEC to report within three months of the bill's enactment on the need for more authority to
restrain “any practices that are inconsistent with the statutory mission of the SEC to protect shareholders and investors.”
Committee members also battled over a provision to require the SEC and other agencies to formulate uniform
settlement procedures. The provision authorized the SEC to craft rules that might contravene state law — for instance,
in establishing liens or security interests in stock by banks or brokers that loaned to investors. That troubled many
committee members, but an amendment by Phil Gramm, R-Texas, to strike the language overruling state law was
defeated 10–11.
Floor Action
Although the two House bills traveled together through the committee process, they were considered separately on
the House floor.
On May 8, the House passed by voice vote HR 3656, which required the SEC to develop coordinated and expedited
methods for settling securities transactions.
The House passed the broader bill (HR 3657) to give the SEC new authority to control wide market swings on June
5, also by voice vote and with no amendments.
The Senate passed S 648 on Aug. 4 voice vote after approving an amendment that required the SEC to use
existing financial reports made to bank regulatory agencies, where such reports parallel SEC requests.
Senate floor action on S 648 had been delayed by a fight over the regulation of stock-index futures contracts, which
some analysts contended added to wild stock price swings. The administration wanted jurisdiction over index futures
8/10/09 2:08 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 6http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal90-1112386&type=hitlist&num=0
some analysts contended added to wild stock price swings. The administration wanted jurisdiction over index futures
transferred to the SEC from the CFTC, but resistance to the proposal bogged down the securities bill.
Final Action
The breakthrough on market legislation came in September, when House, Senate and administration negotiators
agreed on compromise legislation to enhance regulatory authority over the markets. On Sept. 25, the Senate passed
HR 3657 by voice vote after agreeing to a substitute amendment that included the provisions of HR 3656.
The agreement centered on revised language on program trading. Provisions to increase the SEC's authority to halt
trading and to collect information on large trades and the financial health of brokerage houses were kept intact.
The program trading compromise gave the SEC the authority to determine what specific individual program trading
practices that had caused wide price swings and were likely to do so in the future. In those cases, the SEC could
order the practices suspended.
The House placed its seal of approval on the compromise Sept. 28, clearing HR 3657 on a voice vote.
Features
Securities Market Reform Act Provisions
Here are major provisions of the Securities Market Reform Act, PL 101–432 (HR 3657), as signed by President
Bush Oct. 15:
Trading halts. Provided the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) with additional authority to suspend
trading in any specific security for up to 10 business days and a national securities exchange for a period not to
exceed 90 calendar days. Before taking the action, the SEC was required to notify the president of its decision. The
president could block the action by not approving the SEC decision.
Before taking action to halt trading, the SEC was charged with consulting with the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission (CFTC) to consider the impact of emergency action on the futures markets.
Emergency powers. Gave the SEC the authority, in the event of a major market disturbance or excessive
fluctuation of securities prices, to take steps to maintain or restore order to the securities markets and ensure
prompt and accurate settlement of transactions.
Among the options open to the SEC were the authority to alter, supplement, suspend or impose requirements or
restrictions with respect to hours of trading, position limits, and clearance and settlement.
The SEC could keep the emergency orders in effect for 10 business days, including extensions. The president
could rescind an order at any time.
Large trader reporting. Required brokerage houses to provide information to the SEC when engaging in securities
transactions involving a substantial volume. After the Oct. 19, 1987, market crash, the SEC was unable to easily
reconstruct trading. To help the SEC monitor the impact of large transactions on the markets, brokers were required
to identify the trader and accounts used for the transactions. The requirement applied to large transactions, as
identified by the SEC, in publicly traded securities. The SEC was given the authority to issue regulations on the
manner in which the transactions and accounts would be reported.
Financial institutions that offered customers trust services, which included the buying and selling of securities for the
account of the trustees, would be subject to SEC reporting requirements on large transactions.
Recordkeeping requirements. Required brokers and dealers to keep records on large securities transactions. The
figures used to determine a substantial volume or large transaction would be set by the SEC. The records had to be
available for reporting to the SEC on the morning of the day following the transaction. The records could also be
examined by the SEC or other regulatory bodies at any time. The SEC was given the authority to exempt persons
or transactions from reporting requirements.
Risk assessment requirements. Required brokers and dealers to keep records on policies, procedures and
systems for monitoring and controlling financial and operational risks. The records were designed to provide
information to the SEC regarding the overall financial condition of a firm. The provisions were included to address a
growing occurrence of brokers forming holding companies and moving potentially risky activities outside of the
broker-dealer and away from direct regulatory supervision.
Firms were required to maintain records on securities activities, sources of capial and funding and the business
activities of any person likely to have an impact on the financial or operational condition of the organization. The
SEC was authorized to require the brokers and dealers to provide additional information if needed. The SEC was
given the authority to exempt certain individuals and businesses.
Financial institutions that offered trust services would be subject to SEC requirements on risk assessment.
Settlement of transactions. Provided the SEC with authority to establish a national system for settlement and
clearance of securities transactions. The intent of establishing the system was to improve the clearance and
8/10/09 2:08 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 6http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal90-1112386&type=hitlist&num=0
clearance of securities transactions. The intent of establishing the system was to improve the clearance and
settlement process, which had been overloaded during times of extraordinary market volatility. The SEC was
granted the authority to establish linked or coordinated facilities for clearance and settlement of transactions in
securities options, futures contracts and commodity options.
Program trading. Authorized the SEC to adopt rules or regulations concerning acts or practices that affected or
contributed to market volatility. In order to do this, the SEC would first have to make a finding that a specific practice
had contributed to instances of wild price swings.
The language was directed at program trading, which involved large blocks of stocks and related instruments, such
as options of futures, and often involved use of a computerized order system to cope with the volume of stocks
involved.
The SEC was authorized to seek civil penalties and issue cease-and-desist orders against individuals or firms that
continued to employ a practice banned by the SEC.
The SEC was given the authority to take steps to prevent manipulation of stock prices that were reasonably likely to
affect market volatility.
Securities subsidiaries. Required federal banking agencies to report to the SEC any concerns regarding a
significant financial or operational risk to a broker or dealer resulting from the activities of a financial institution.
Congressional reports. Required the secretary of the Treasury, the Federal Reserve Board chairman and
chairmen of the SEC and CFTC to report to Congress no later than May 31, 1991, and annually thereafter on efforts
to coordinate securities, futures and banking regulatory activities. The reports were to cover agency views on the
adequacy of margin levels and efforts to create a mechanism for clearance and settlement. The agencies were to
file the reports separately.
Document Citation
"Market Control Authority of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Increased." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ
Almanac Online Edition, cqal90-1112386. Originally published in CQ Almanac 1990 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly,
1991). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal90-1112386 (accessed August 10, 2009).
Document ID: cqal90-1112386
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal90-1112386
© 1991, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
