7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
Stock Market and Financial
Services
2004 Stock Option Accountability
2001 SEC Law a Win for Wall Street
1999 Major Overhaul Enacted Of Rules
Governing the Financial Services
Industry
1998 Loophole Fix Moves Class-Action
Securities Suits From State to
Federal Courts
1998 Financial Services Overhaul Dies
in Senate, A Victim of Friendly
Fire
1997 Financial Services Overhaul Stalls
1996 Securities Regulation Provisions
1996 Financial Services Provisions
1996 Congress Streamlines Securities
Rules
1994 Other Securities-Related Bills
Considered in 1994
1994 Financial Services Trade Bill
Falters at Session's End
1993 Financial Services Bill Seeks To
Open Markets
1993 Bill Tightens Regulation of
Government Bond Market
1992 Government Securities Bill Is
Quashed
1991 Government Securities Bill
Considered
1990 Market Control Authority of the
Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) Increased
1990 Congress Passes Bills
Strengthening Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC)
1989 Securities Arbitration
1989 Market Reform Stalled
1988 Stock Market Regulation
1988 Insider-Trading Bill
1986 Securities Dealer Regulations
1985 Government Securities Firms
1982 Commodity Futures Trading Bill
Cleared
1980 Securities Investor Privacy
1977 Investor Protection
1975 Overhaul Of Securities Industry
Approved
1974 Rules Committee Blocks
Securities Bill
1974 Municipal Bonds Regulation
1973 Stock Exchange Membership
1973 Securities Transactions
1973 Securities Thefts
1973 Federal Financing Bank
1972 Securities Transactions
1972 Securities Industry
1971 Securities Thefts: Mafia Moves on
Wall Street
1971 Securities Industry
Major Overhaul Enacted Of Rules Governing
the Financial Services Industry
An article from CQ Almanac 1999
Document Outline
Fuzzy Battle Lines Complicate Overhaul Effort
Democrats Warn That Senate Panel's Bill Will Draw Veto
Both Sides Cheer Measure Approved By House Panel
Despite Rancorous Debate, Senate Passes Overhaul
GOP Thwarts Effort To Toughen Privacy Protections In
House Bill
House Panel Approves Bill; Industry Prepares For Floor
Fight
Leaders Soften Privacy Language As Bill Heads for
House Floor
Houses Passes Bill By Wide Margin; Leaders Hope for
Edge in Conference
Conference-Bound Bill Gets Boost From Democratic
Vote-Switching
Roster Dispute Marks Beginning Of Conference
Clamor Over Consumer Privacy Puts Banks On the
Defensive
New Backroom Strategy Debated For Banking Bill
United at Last, Financial Industry Pressures Hill To Clear
Overhaul
As Conferees Tackle Final Issues, Leaders Promise
Quick Floor Votes
White House, Conferees Reach Final Agreement
Bill Clears After Final Skirmish Over Community
Reinvestment
Features
After decades of failed efforts, Congress passed and President Clinton signed
a historic overhaul of laws governing the financial services industry. The issue
drew scant public attention and was little known outside of Washington and
Wall Street, but it will rank among the key laws passed by the 106th
Congress.
The measure repeals laws restricting cross-ownership among banks,
brokerages and insurers, and establishes a new regulatory framework for
maintaining the safety and stability of the financial industry.
The barriers to cross-industry activities were enacted in response to the
Great Depression in the belief that they would help stem financial failures.
The 1933 Glass-Steagall Act erected barriers between the banking and
securities industries, and the 1956 Bank Holding Company Act imposed
barriers between banking and insurance activities.
A consensus had emerged in Congress in recent years that the laws were
outdated, and that widespread financial collapse could be averted through
less restrictive regulations. Bill supporters also argued that repealing the
barriers would improve customer service by offering one-stop shopping for
financial products, and would help U.S. financial institutions better compete
globally.
Recent court and regulatory decisions had already eroded the barriers among
the industries, allowing some cross-sector affiliations to proceed. Still, the
financial industry wanted new laws explicitly repealing the barriers and
 
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
1971 Securities Industry
1970 Securities Exemption
1970 Protection for Stockholders
1970 Mutual Funds: New Controls
After Four-Year Delay
1970 Congress Clears Securities
Investor Protection Bill
1969 Securities Hearings
1969 Mutual Funds
1968 Securities Disclosure
1968 Over-The-Counter Securities
1968 Institutional Investors Study
1967 Securities Disclosure
1967 Hearings Held on S.E.C. Bill to
Regulate Mutual Funds
1965 Securities Fees
1964 Controls Over Stock Issues and
Dealers Strengthened
1963 SEC Study Submitted; Senate
Approves Bill
1962 S.E.C. Activities
1955 Stock Market Study
1955 Government Securities
1954 Changes In SEC Law
Bill S 900 — PL 106 - 102
Legislative action Senate passed
S 900 (S Rept 106 -44), 54-44, on
May 6.
House passed HR 10 (H Rept 106
-74, Parts 1-3), 343-86, on July 1.
Senate adopted the conference report
on S 900 (H Rept 106 -434), 90-
8, on Nov. 4.
House cleared the bill,  362-57, on
Nov. 4.
President signed S 900 on Nov. 12.
financial industry wanted new laws explicitly repealing the barriers and
providing guidance for future consolidation.
Overhaul efforts had foundered repeatedly in previous Congresses as various
industry sectors fought among themselves over the details. In 1999, the
industries generally put aside their differences and united to get a bill
enacted,and they repeatedly applied heavy pressure on GOP leaders to keep
things moving.
The chief front-line strategists were Rep. Jim Leach, R-Iowa, and Sen. Phil
Gramm, R-Texas, chairmen of their chambers' Banking committees. The two
approached the issue with different leadership styles, and the bills that initially
emerged from the two chambers differed dramatically.
Leach worked hard to win Democratic support for his bill (HR 10), seeking
bipartisan consensus at every turn while trying to avoid divisive provisions.
Gramm took a more partisan approach. He insisted on including controversial
provisions that would have scaled back the 1977 Community Reinvestment
Act (PL 95-128), an anti-redlining law intended to force banks to make loans
in low-income areas. Democrats, the White House and community groups
vehemently opposed those provisions, and the Senate bill passed on a party-
line vote in committee and with only one Democratic vote on the floor.
In conference negotiations, Gramm made concessions on the reinvestment
act that eventually helped seal a bipartisan agreement.
Gramm gave up a provision that would have exempted small, rural banks
from complying with the law, but he was able to include a provision reducing the frequency of compliance reviews
for most small banks. The final measure also contains a “ sunshine” provision pushed by Gramm that requires
community groups to disclose payments they receive from banks as part of arrangements in which the groups agree
not to protest banks' reinvestment ratings. The provision also requires the groups to disclose how they spend the
payments.
Privacy provisions were another partisan flash point. In the end, Democrats succeeded in placing some new
restrictions on the ability of financial service companies to transfer customer data to third parties. Republicans fought
off Democratic efforts to impose more sweeping privacy measures opposed by the industries.
Complicating matters further were several difficult provisions that
did not divide lawmakers along party lines. For example, conferees
haggled over whether savings and loans, also known as thrifts,
should be barred from affiliating with commercial firms.
Legislators' positions on the issue had more to do with home
district and philosophical concerns than partisanship. Conferees
decided to bar such mergers in the future, although existing
affiliations between commercial businesses and thrifts would be
allowed to continue.
Another key turning point for the bill was an agreement between
the Treasury Department and Federal Reserve over how the new
financial conglomerates would be structured and who would
regulate them.
The White House had threatened to veto the bill if Treasury's
demands were ignored, but many legislators were reluctant to pass
a bill over the objections of Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan. The
two agencies settled their long-running feud during conference
negotiations by agreeing to a framework in which both agencies
would continue to play strong banking oversight roles.
Public and private conference negotiations were lengthy. The prospects for the bill appeared grim on several
occasions, but industry lobbyists stepped up the heat whenever discussions appeared on the brink of collapse.
Fuzzy Battle Lines Complicate Overhaul Effort
FEBRUARY 27 It would be difficult to find an issue with a more curious mix of interest-group conflict than the
proposed overhaul of financial services regulations. Small banks agree with big banks on some issues but disagree
on others. Insurance agents agree on oversight issues with the state officials who regulate them. Consumer groups
echo some, but not all, positions voiced by insurance agents. Federal regulatory agencies are engaged in turf
battles.
With the House and Senate financial services bills (HR 10, Senate draft) drawing a dizzying mix of praise and ire
from the affected groups and industries, congressional leaders in both chambers face a tough task in meeting their
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
from the affected groups and industries, congressional leaders in both chambers face a tough task in meeting their
goal of moving the measures quickly to floor votes. Committee markups are scheduled for March 3 in the Senate
Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee and March 4 in the House Banking and Financial Services
Committee.
The bills call for repealing provisions of the 1933 Glass-Steagall Act and amending the 1956 Bank Holding
Company Act, which erected barriers between the banking, securities and insurance industries under the belief that
they would help avert widespread financial failures.
Similar bills have failed numerous times in recent years, but last year's version of HR 10 moved further than ever: It
passed the House by one vote, then stalled in the Senate.
A consensus has emerged that the 1933 and 1956 laws are outdated and harmful to U.S. financial companies'
ability to compete internationally. But the details involved in revamping financial services laws are complex.
Several prominent groups have given qualified support to HR 10. They see it as a delicate compromise that took
months to negotiate. But Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, the new chairman of the Senate Banking Committee,
disagrees. During committee hearings Feb. 25, Gramm derided HR 10 as a timid “mass of compromises” that would
erect new barriers in the process of knocking down old ones. Gramm said it would be “a waste of time” to go back
to HR 10.
Legislative activity has prompted an avalanche of campaign contributions from industries angling to win market
advantages or deny such advantages to competitors. In the 1997-98 election cycle, industries lobbying on the issue
gave $45 million in political action committee (PAC) money, soft money and individual contributions to federal parties
and candidates, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan group that tracks campaign money.
Of that amount, about 40 percent went to members of the three committees — including House Commerce — with
jurisdiction over financial services.
The following is an issue-by-issue scorecard on where major players stand on key elements of the legislation:
Community Reinvestment Act
The overhaul process is generally viewed as a classic inside-the-Beltway battle among heavyweight lobbyists,
federal regulators and interest groups. An exception is the debate over what to do with the 1977 Community
Reinvestment Act (PL 95-128). The act requires banks to document their efforts to invest in all segments of their
communities. An unfavorable review from federal regulators could bring sanctions.
Reinvestment supporters include community groups across the nation, who say the 1977 law has helped revitalize
scores of neighborhoods by prodding banks to look for investment opportunities in poor neighborhoods. They add
that banks have thrived in doing so.
Many Republicans view the reinvestment act as an inappropriate biggovernment intrusion on business. Gramm has
been among the harshest critics, but he has softened his public stance since becoming Banking chairman. The
Clinton administration supports the law, and in recent weeks has signaled that it will veto any overhaul legislation
that is unfriendly to it.
The House bill (HR 10), sponsored by Banking Committee Chairman Jim Leach, R-Iowa, would maintain
reinvestment requirements for banks. The Senate bill unveiled by Gramm would ease compliance requirements for
banks.
The banking community generally wants to do away with the act in order to ease regulatory compliance burdens.
But bankers view repeal as politically unrealistic and have held their fire.
Some consumer and community advocates have called for expanding the reinvestment act to cover financial
operations of the new conglomerates that would be allowed under the overhaul legislation. A Republican aide said
that was also politically unrealistic.
Banking and Commerce
The House and Senate bills differ widely on whether to allow banks to engage in commercial non-banking
enterprises. Opponents worry that the failure of bank-owned commercial enterprises could threaten the banking
system's safety and stability. They also fear that banks would be tempted to deny credit to commercial competitors.
Leach adamantly opposes any mix of banking and commerce. His bill would prohibit it. Treasury Secretary Robert E.
Rubin and Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan support this position. But Greenspan has said that
market forces and technological advancements are making the mixture of commercial and banking activities
inevitable. He said Congress will likely have to address the issue a few years after a financial services overhaul is
enacted.
Gramm's draft bill initially suggested support for a limited mix of commerce and banking, but that item was under
revision Feb. 26.
A Democratic alternative bill (HR 665), sponsored by House Banking panel ranking member John J. LaFalce, D-N.Y.,
would allow bank holding companies to own commercial firms totaling up to 15 percent of the holding company's
annual consolidated gross revenues. Rubin generally supports HR 665 but has cited this provision as Treasury's
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
annual consolidated gross revenues. Rubin generally supports HR 665 but has cited this provision as Treasury's
only major objection.
Smaller banks adamantly oppose any mix of banking and commerce. Kenneth A. Guenther, a lobbyist for the
Independent Bankers Association of America, said the organization agrees that mixing banking and commerce
poses bank safety concerns. Guenther also noted that the smaller banks the association primarily represents are
unlikely to be big players in commercial activities, and would be at a disadvantage competing against larger banks
that could buy large businesses and cross-market a wide variety of commercial and financial products.
Unitary Thrifts
Under current law, commercial companies are allowed to own one federal savings institution, which functions largely
like a bank. These unitary thrifts are seen by banks as unfair competitors because banks generally cannot engage
in commerce. Banks would like to see unitary thrifts eliminated.
Thrift groups oppose attempts to scale back the operation of unitary thrifts. Gramm's bill generally would leave the
thrifts alone. Leach's bill would allow existing thrifts to continue but would halt new thrift charters.
Structure and Regulation
A big impediment to passage of an overhaul bill is an unusually high-profile spat between the Clinton administration
and the Federal Reserve over how financial conglomerates should be structured and thus regulated.
Greenspan says that to preserve the safety and soundness of federally insured banking activities, non-banking
financial activities should be conducted in separate holding companies.
Rubin says banks should be allowed to organize non-banking financial services as subsidiaries of parent banks. The
Federal Reserve regulates holding companies, and Treasury regulates banks and their subsidiaries.
Leach's bill embraces the holding company structure favored by Greenspan. Gramm's bill would allow national banks
with assets of $1 billion or less to have operating subsidiaries, although real estate activities would be barred from
subsidiaries.
The banking community is split. Small banks, which are unlikely to be major players in the development of financial
services conglomerates, support the holding company requirement as written in HR 10. Guenther said his
organization, which represents smaller banks, agrees with Greenspan's safety and security concerns, and said
stability and consumer trust in banking are paramount. Large banks disagree. They believe the subsidiaries
arrangement would be safe, and they want the flexibility to structure financial services that way.
Insurance Oversight
The insurance industry is regulated largely by state governments. There is a sharp division among interest groups
over whether federal regulators should play a larger role in insurance regulation under a financial services overhaul.
Gramm's bill generally leans toward federal regulation of banks' insurance activities. Leach offers more of a mix of
state and federal oversight.
State insurance regulators want to maintain their oversight authority, and they have complained that HR 10 goes too
far in limiting their ability to regulate insurance activities when those activities are conducted through banks.
Consumer advocates have similar concerns. Consumers Union, which publishes Consumer Reports, has argued that
federal regulators have shown a lack of interest in consumer protection.
These consumer groups and insurance regulators have found themselves allied with insurance agents, who have
joined in the call to preserve comprehensive state regulatory oversight of the insurance industry. The agents want to
make sure that banks do not have a competitive advantage in the insurance industry by operating under what they
call less rigorous federal standards.
However, insurance companies have taken a different view than the people who sell and buy their services. The
American Council of Life Insurance and the American Insurance Association, which represent insurance companies,
support HR 10. Bank groups also support this position. Bankers fear that state regulators will favor local insurers
over multistate banking operations, and that the regulators will lean harder on national banks selling insurance to
help give local insurers a competitive edge.
Securities Oversight
Like their counterparts in the insurance industry, state securities regulators want to protect their oversight
responsibilities. They want shared oversight with federal regulators in the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
over securities transactions, including those conducted by banks. The Securities Industry Association favors SEC
regulation of securities.
State regulators have complained that HR 10 is too ambiguous in preserving joint oversight of financial
conglomerates, that it would permit bank employees not licensed by state securities regulators to sell securities. In
Feb. 11 testimony to the House Banking panel in behalf of the North American Securities Administrators Association
Inc., Thomas E. Geyer, commissioner of the Ohio Division of Securities, warned that HR 10 could hurt consumer
protections in securities transactions by creating a “parallel universe” of unregistered banks and their sales force.
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
Federal regulators are also wrangling over oversight duties. Gramm's bill would dilute the SEC's oversight of banks'
securities activities in favor of federal bank regulators, which banks support.
Democrats Warn That Senate Panel's Bill Will Draw Veto
MARCH 6 A Senate committee approved legislation March 4 to overhaul the financial services industry in a markup
that was partisan from the outset, with Democrats warning that Republicans' insistence on scaling back community
reinvestment laws would kill any chance of shaping a bill that President Clinton would sign.
The same day, a House committee began marking up its own measure (HR 10), a bill whose hallmark is Democratic
and administration support. The panel disposed of 20 amendments before adjourning March 4, and planned to
reconvene March 10.
Both bills call for repealing provisions of the 1933 Glass-Steagall Act and amending the 1956 Bank Holding
Company Act, which erected barriers among the banking, securities and insurance industries. Last year the House
passed a similar bill by one vote, but it stalled in the Senate.
In the Senate on March 4, Republicans on the Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee held together on two
11-9 party-line votes to reject a minority-supported overhaul proposal offered by ranking Democrat Paul S.
Sarbanes of Maryland, and then approve an unnumbered Republican-backed measure. The bill is expected on the
floor in April, a GOP staff aide said.
Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass., asked Republicans why they were pushing ahead when they knew the two sides were at
an impasse on key issues. Chairman Phil Gramm, R-Texas, did not dispute the use of “impasse,” but said he
believed Clinton was responsible for it. “I am increasingly convinced that the president does not want the bill,”
Gramm said.
Community Reinvestment
The most contentious issue of the day was an amendment by Richard C. Shelby, R-Ala., to exempt small, nonurban
banks from the 1977 Community Reinvestment Act (CRA), which requires banks to document their efforts to invest
in all segments of their communities. The law (PL 95-128) provides for sanctions if federal regulators issue a bank
an unfavorable review. The amendment passed, 11-9, with one member of each party crossing the battle lines.
The Clinton administration has said it will veto any attempt to weaken the reinvestment act. Reinvestment supporters
include community groups across the nation, who say the law has helped revitalize neighborhoods by prodding
banks to look for investment opportunities in poor neighborhoods. Committee Republicans said the act has created
heavy paperwork requirements that are particularly burdensome for small banks.
Shelby's amendment was targeted at banks with less than $250 million in assets located outside metropolitan areas.
Gramm supported it, saying the law has little relevance to small banks. These banks, he argued, are often in tiny
communities and generally do not need government pressure to spread their assets around because they must
reinvest locally just to survive.
Democrats disagreed, saying small banks have a track record of using a large share of local bank deposits to invest
in securities rather than the local community. Christopher J. Dodd, DConn., warned Republicans that they were
heading down a path that would doom chances of enacting a financial services bill. “We're about to have a train
wreck here over this issue,” he said.
Gramm said Democrats' insistence on applying the reinvestment act to the smallest banks in the smallest
communities signaled their unwillingness to compromise. “Maybe you're the extremists on this issue,” Gramm said.
In an effort to sway votes, Gramm moved to reduce the cap in Shelby's measure from banks with $250 million in net
assets to $100 million, which Shelby accepted. But when the vote was called only one Democrat, Tim Johnson of
South Dakota, joined the Republicans. Johnson issued a statement afterward saying that although the reinvestment
act was important, a “narrowly tailored CRA exemption for small, rural banks makes sense and gives our community
banks a competitive break as we create vast new entities which will compete with them for increasingly scarce
deposits.”
The only Republican to vote against the amendment, Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania, said he was concerned about
the impact of changes to the reinvestment act on rural areas of his state.
Gramm also differed with Sarbanes on “unitary thrifts.” Under current law, commercial companies are allowed to
own one federal savings institution, which functions largely like a bank. These unitary thrifts are seen by banks as
unfair competitors because banks generally cannot engage in commerce. Banks want unitary thrifts eliminated.
Gramm's and Sarbanes' overhaul proposals both call for freezing the number of unitary thrifts while allowing existing
thrifts to continue.
However, Sarbanes said his bill would do more to restrict the expansion of existing thrifts, a position that Gramm
said would violate owners' rights.
House Action
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
While the Senate markup produced a bill that conservatives favor, House Banking and Financial Services Chairman
Jim Leach, R-Iowa, and the panel's ranking Democrat, John J. LaFalce of New York, struggled to maintain bipartisan
support for their measure.
The bill (HR 10) would allow banks with less than $10 billion in assets to organize their other financial services as
operating subsidiaries, as favored by the Treasury Department. They would be prohibited, however, from
underwriting insurance or funding real estate development through such a setup.
Leach and LaFalce generally were successful in holding their bill together, as the committee rejected the most
threatening amendments.
As it had in the Senate markup, the Community Reinvestment Act played a prominent role in panel deliberations.
The House bill would extend reinvestment requirements to banks included in the new financial conglomerates, but
Democrats attempted to extend it further.
Luis V. Gutierrez, D-Ill., led three attempts to apply the act to insurance and securities portions of the conglomerates,
but all three amendments were rejected, mostly along partisan lines.
Richard H. Baker, R-La., attempted to allow banks to comply with the law by investing in any improvements that
would boost public health or the environment. Baker said he wanted to set some parameters for compliance, but
Democrats said it would allow banks to invest in Fortune 500 companies and call it community reinvestment. Baker's
amendment was defeated by voice vote.
The panel also touched on several other contentious issues, including:
Redlining The panel adopted, 28-27, an amendment by Barbara Lee, D-Calif., that would prevent an insurance
company from merging with a bank or securities firm if it was involved in litigation over alleged redlining or if it had settled
such a suit by consent decree. Redlining is the practice of denying people insurance because they live in a certain
neighborhood.
Low-cost bank accounts After an emotional debate, the panel rejected, 27-31, an amendment by Maxine Waters,
D-Calif., that would have required banks to have a “demonstrable record” of providing low-cost accounts. Proponents
said that more than 12 million people do not have bank accounts, in part because they cannot afford them.
Privacy issues The panel adopted by voice vote an amendment by Ron Paul, R-Texas, and Tom Campbell, RCalif.,
to prevent the executive branch from implementing certain proposed “know your customer” regulations. The regulations
aim to enlist banks in stopping fraudulent cash transactions, such as laundering drug money. But members said they
had received many letters from constituents concerned about the privacy of their financial records.
Before approving the amendment, the panel adopted by voice vote a secondary amendment by Baker and Bob Barr,
R-Ga., that narrowed the proposals that could not be implemented. The original amendment would have prohibited
federal agencies from requiring banks “to monitor the legality of the transaction activities of customers,” but several
members said it was too broad.
Some Republicans expressed concern about the bill's overall structure, saying that Leach had moved too far toward
LaFalce and the administration.
High-ranking panel Republican Marge Roukema of New Jersey strongly opposed Leach's move to allow some
financial conglomerates to organize as operating subsidiaries. Roukema favors an approach pushed by Federal
Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan that would require conglomerates to be set up as holding companies in which
the bottom line of each business remained distinct. LaFalce and Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin favor allowing
companies to set up operating subsidiaries in which additional businesses become part of the bottom line of the
parent corporation, often likely to be a bank.
Roukema offered but withdrew an amendment that would have overturned the provisions, but she warned that the
issue would not go away. “ Perhaps we can only look to the Commerce Committee to save us from ourselves,” she
said. That panel has jurisdiction over several aspects of the bill, mostly involving securities.
Michael G. Oxley, R-Ohio, chairman of Commerce's Subcommittee on Finance and Hazardous Materials, said March
4 that panel leaders will likely wait for the Senate to act before they spend much time on HR 10. He said he felt that
despite House-Senate differences, the bill was not necessarily doomed. “Most of the people who've been through it
know that it's the usual drill of two steps forward and one step back,” Oxley said.
Both Sides Cheer Measure Approved By House Panel
MARCH 13 A financial services overhaul bill approved by a House committee with strong bipartisan support had
members glowing about its prospects for becoming law, but the bill clashes with companion legislation in the
Senate on some thorny issues that could derail progress.
The House bill (HR 10) was approved, 51-8, on March 11 by the House Banking and Financial Services Committee
after a grueling three-day markup held March 4, March 10 and March 11. Committee Chairman Jim Leach, R-Iowa,
painstakingly steered the panel through a minefield of partisan pitfalls and veto-triggering amendments to produce a
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
painstakingly steered the panel through a minefield of partisan pitfalls and veto-triggering amendments to produce a
bill that had members of both parties clapping and back-slapping upon approval.
Moments after the final vote, ranking Democrat John J. LaFalce of New York — who just 24 hours earlier during a
procedural flap with Republicans was pounding on his desk and shouting that bipartisanship was on its deathbed —
proudly proclaimed that he believed it was a bill President Clinton would sign if it reached his desk.
Both the House and Senate bills call for repealing provisions of the 1933 Glass-Steagall Act and amending the 1956
Bank Holding Company Act, which erected barriers among the banking, securities and insurance industries. There is
widespread industry consensus that those laws are outdated and that they limit the international competitiveness of
U.S. financial institutions.
But HR 10 differs substantially from the unnumbered Senate bill approved March 4 by the Banking, Housing and
Urban Affairs Committee on at least two key issues: community reinvestment requirements for banks, and regulatory
oversight of the new financial conglomerates that would be created under the legislation.
Further complicating matters, the House bill contains a provision on financial privacy despite efforts by Leach and
others to keep it out. The Senate bill does not include anything comparable. Both parties tend to agree on the need
for greater protection of bank customers' privacy, but they disagree on how it should be done.
Community Reinvestment
HR 10 largely avoids changes to the 1977 Community Reinvestment Act (PL 95-128), which aims to ensure that
banks invest in poor and minority communities. It requires banks to document efforts to invest in all segments of the
communities in which they collect deposits, and provides for sanctions if federal regulators issue a bank an
unfavorable review.
The threat of a partisan showdown on community reinvestment hung in the air when Rep. Bill  McCollum, R-Fla.,
submitted four amendments that would have scaled back the reach of the reinvestment act, but McCollum never
called for their consideration. Democrats adamantly oppose any rollbacks of reinvestment requirements, and
adoption of any of McCollum's amendments could have sunk the chances for widespread Democratic support of HR
10. Clinton has said he will veto any bill that weakens community reinvestment requirements.
The Senate bill contains a controversial GOP-backed exemption for banks with less than $100 million in assets
located outside metropolitan areas. Senate Republicans argued that the reinvestment act creates a heavy
compliance and paperwork burden, particularly for smaller banks.
Regulatory Oversight
The battle between Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan and the Clinton administration on regulatory
oversight of financial services conglomerates appears to be shifting in both chambers toward the administration's
position.
Greenspan strongly believes that all non-bank financial services should be conducted in holding companies that are
separate from bank operations. Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin believes banks should be allowed to conduct
those activities through subsidiaries. The disagreement has been characterized as a turf war because the Fed
oversees holding companies while Treasury regulates bank subsidiaries, but Greenspan and Rubin say their
positions are based on what they believe to be the safest ways to structure banks.
Both the House and Senate bills edge away from Greenspan's position, but they remain far apart in the details. HR
10 would allow banks with less than $10 billion in assets to organize their non-banking financial services as
operating subsidiaries, as favored by the Treasury Department. Subsidiaries would be prohibited, however, from
underwriting insurance or funding real estate development. Those would have to be conducted separately through a
holding company. The Senate bill would allow banks with $1 billion or less in assets to organize non-bank financial
services as subsidiaries, except for real estate activities.
Privacy
Rep. Jay Inslee, D-Wash., forced his colleagues to choose between dueling, hastily drafted banking privacy
measures, even though many members of both parties were reluctant to do so. At the House committee markup
March 10, Inslee offered an amendment that, among other things, would require banks to notify customers if they
planned to release information about their depository transactions, such as check writing, to third parties. Customers
would then have 30 days to inform the bank that they did not want such information released. “This is a privacy
right,” Inslee said. “We need to protect it.”
Leach warned that while he agreed with Inslee's concerns, the amendment would raise “enormous” issues and have
unintended consequences that could hurt consumers. He urged Inslee to withdraw the amendment so the issue
could be considered more thoroughly later. Instead, Inslee's staff worked late into the night with majority staff
members to produce a bipartisan revision unveiled the next day.
Leach, apparently sensing that he could not head off a vote on some kind of privacy measure, joined the fray with
his own proposal. His staff and aides from the office of Bruce F. Vento, D-Minn., also toiled late into the evening
March 10 to produce a 20-page Leach-Vento substitute amendment that would require consumer notification of
banks' information-sharing practices.
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
The Leach-Vento amendment contained no “opt out” provision as required under Inslee's measure. At the markup
March 11, with the two privacy measures competing, several members expressed unease with the timing. Rep. Brad
Sherman, D-Calif., said, “It is very difficult for many of us to vote against having a privacy component of this bill now
that this issue has come up.”
The committee approved the Leach-Vento measure, 34-22, as a substitute for Inslee's amendment, and then
approved the underlying amendment, 52-6.
Other issues tackled by the committee included:
ATM fees Rep. Bernard Sanders, I-Vt., attempted to win approval for a measure prohibiting banks from charging non-
customers a fee to use automated teller machines (ATMs). But a substitute amendment by LaFalce and Leach requiring
banks to disclose any such fees prior to an ATM transaction was approved, 35-10. The underlying measure was then
approved, 48-1.
Unitary thrifts Rep. Ken Bentsen, D-Texas, succeeded in an effort to relax a provision in HR 10 that would have
frozen the creation of new thrifts and prohibited existing thrifts from affiliating with commercial companies. Thrifts are
insured federal savings institutions that function much like banks. The banking community complains that thrifts have
unfair market advantages over banks, such as the ability to affiliate with commercial businesses. Leach and others have
worried about the mixing of banking and commerce that occurs when thrifts are sold to commercial firms.
Supporters of Bentsen's efforts argued strongly that there is no evidence that thrifts have caused a problem in the
marketplace and that it would be unfair to change the rules for them. Bentsen's amendment, which would freeze the
number of existing thrifts but continue to allow those thrifts to be sold to commercial firms, was approved, 29-26.
Bank mergers On March 4, the committee voted, 22-21, on an amendment to require the Federal Reserve Board to
hold public hearings on big mergers in all major affected cities. On March 10, Republicans Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin
and John E. Sweeney of New York offered an amendment to give the Fed greater discretion in deciding whether to hold
such hearings. Democrats angrily accused Republicans of trying to revisit an issue the Republicans had lost. The
dispute led to an angry burst of parliamentary maneuvering, leading LaFalce to pound his desk and shout that
bipartisanship was sinking fast.
Leach adjourned the session for the day, and the next morning a bipartisan amendment offered by Vento, Sweeney
and Ryan was calmly adopted by voice vote, with a few members expressing dissent. The compromise measure
would require the Fed to conduct public meetings in some of the affected cities on mergers involving depository
institutions with $1 billion or more in assets.
Different Approaches
Throughout the House markup Leach calmly but doggedly tugged at the strings of both parties to keep factions from
drifting away on key issues. Leach even occasionally broke with the Republican majority to support Democratic
positions.
In contrast, the March 4 Senate markup struck a much more partisan tone. That markup lasted less than three
hours and produced a much shorter bill that, while praised by some financial industries, drew fire from others that
saw compromise sacrificed for brevity. Gramm has responded that HR 10 is so complicated that nobody really
understands it, which is why fewer people oppose it.
Leach said that he has had only “preliminary” discussions with Gramm regarding the financial services overhaul, and
the two have not yet had substantive discussions on key details. Nevertheless, Leach said, he believed the Senate
and House bills had inched closer during the markup phase.
The House Commerce Committee, which has joint jurisdiction over HR 10 with the Banking Committee, has yet to
take up the measure. A spokesman said the panel was waiting for Senate floor action, which is not expected in
March.
Despite Rancorous Debate, Senate Passes Overhaul
MAY 8 The Senate narrowly passed a financial services overhaul bill containing controversial provisions that would
almost surely draw a veto, although a key Republican predicted compromises were likely to emerge in conference
to rescue the measure. The most partisan and contentious floor battle involved a community lending law, and a split
among Republicans over a regulatory issue nearly derailed a final vote.
Additional complications for the legislation have cropped up in the House, where deep differences are emerging
between committees with joint jurisdiction.
Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee Chairman Phil Gramm, R-Texas, acknowledged on the floor
that part of the reason for the partisan rancor over the bill (S 900) was that he had not worked well with the
committee's ranking Democrat, Paul S. Sarbanes of Maryland. “I regret that I have not done a better job in working
with Sen. Sarbanes,” Gramm said. Sarbanes responded: “I share the regret expressed by the chairman that we
have not been able to work this matter out this year in a way to avoid these sharp party differences.”
The contrition was short-lived, however, and both men were soon accusing each other of making misleading
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 9 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
The contrition was short-lived, however, and both men were soon accusing each other of making misleading
statements. A Democratic substitute was voted down along party lines, and on May 6 the Senate voted, 54-44, to
pass Gramm's bill with only minor changes. The only senator to cross party lines to vote for the bill was Ernest F.
Hollings, D-S.C. (Vote 105, p. S-24)
Congress has struggled for years to undo Depression-era laws restricting cross-ownership among banks,
brokerages and securities firms. These restrictions — contained in the 1933 Glass-Steagall Act and the 1956 Bank
Holding Company Act — were enacted to help avert widespread financial failures, but a consensus has emerged in
recent years that they are outdated.
Gramm told reporters that despite partisan disputes and veto threats over his bill, he believed agreements could be
worked out in conference that President Clinton could support.
Community Reinvestment
The issue claiming the largest portion of the three-day Senate debate was the 1977 Community Reinvestment Act
(PL 95-128), which requires banks to document efforts to invest in poor neighborhoods. A poor rating can result in
denial of bank applications for mergers or expansions. The law has broad support among Democrats, who said it
has improved poor and minority neighborhoods. “The dramatic increase in home ownership rates for minorities is
attributable in large part to increased focus on banks' CRA performance,” said Richard H. Bryan, D-Nev. Clinton has
threatened to veto any bill scaling back the law. (1977 Almanac, p. 126)
Gramm said the law imposes a heavy regulatory burden, especially on smaller banks, and that community groups
have used it to “extort” grants and loans from banks. His bill would make it more difficult for these groups to
challenge a bank's reinvestment record if a bank had been in compliance with the law for the past three years, and
it would exempt small, rural banks from reinvestment requirements.
Gramm said savvy community groups have learned that banks are particularly vulnerable to unfounded allegations of
redlining and sharking when the banks are seeking to merge or expand, and thus banks feel pressure to cut deals
with community groups even if they have done nothing wrong.
He produced copies of what he said were confidential reinvestment agreements between banks and community
groups. The documents show, Gramm said, that community groups are promised cash payments in exchange for
withdrawing complaints about bank loan practices so that the banks will get good reinvestment ratings. Some
agreements require banks to send letters to lawmakers stating that they support the 1977 law, he said. “This is
about abuse,” Gramm said. “This is about a wrong going on in America.”
Democrats countered that Gramm's reinvestment proposals were far more sweeping than necessary to deal with
isolated cases of abuse. They sought to eliminate Gramm's reinvestment language with two amendments that were
defeated May 5. An amendment by Bryan to strip the bill of its reinvestment provisions was tabled, or killed, 52-45.
(Vote 101, p. S-24)
A Sarbanes substitute for S 900 also was tabled, 54-43. The substitute would have deleted Gramm's reinvestment
measures, among other changes. The only substantial reinvestment change was a bipartisan “sunshine” measure
approved by voice vote. It would require that reinvestment agreements be made public.(Vote 100, p. S-23)
Structure and Oversight
The bill was nearly derailed by a squabble among Republicans over how the new financial conglomerates should be
structured. Gramm's bill generally would adhere to a position advocated by Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan
Greenspan, requiring that non-banking financial activities, such as insurance and securities underwriting, be
conducted separately from bank operations under the umbrella of a holding company.
The Clinton administration and most Democrats favor giving banks the option of operating non-banking activities
through bank subsidiaries, and Clinton has threatened to veto legislation that does not allow it. Richard C. Shelby, R-
Ala., introduced an amendment to allow the subsidiary structure, saying it was more flexible and would make U.S.
banks more globally competitive without endangering the banking system.
Gramm disagreed, saying federally insured bank operations must be separated from other financial services to
ensure banking system safety. He added that he would pull S 900 from the floor if the Shelby amendment was
adopted. It was tabled, 53-46, with six Democrats and seven Republicans crossing party lines. (Vote 104, p. S-24)
Like the House bill, Gramm's bill would prevent the creation of any new commercially owned savings and loans, also
known as unitary thrifts. Tim Johnson, D-S.D., offered an amendment that would go a step further to prevent existing
unitary thrifts from being bought by commercial companies. Johnson called current law a “loophole” allowing a
dangerous mix of banking and commerce. Gramm said it would be unfair and unconstitutional to change the rules
for existing thrifts, but Johnson's amendment was approved by voice vote.
House Prospects
The House bill (HR 10), approved by the Banking and Financial Services Committee in a bipartisan vote March 11,
does not include the Senate's reinvestment rollbacks. The bill generally allows the subsidiary option for all but the
largest banks.
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 10 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
Much of Banking's work could be undone by the Commerce Committee, however, which has joint jurisdiction over
financial services. At Commerce, members of both parties have said they will seek substantial changes that could
move the House bill closer to the Senate version, particularly on structural issues.
Committee Chairman Thomas J. Bliley Jr., R-Va., said he would try to overturn the subsidiary provision of HR 10.
Failing to do so “would compromise the integrity of our financial markets,” he said at a hearing April 28. Ranking
Democrat John D. Dingell of Michigan also said that he wants changes.
GOP Thwarts Effort To Toughen Privacy Protections In House Bill
MAY 29 Consumer privacy has grown into a major point of contention as Congress works to overhaul the laws
governing the nation's financial service industries. With Democrats pushing hard for greater restrictions on the
corporate use and sale of personal data, Republicans have been in the uncomfortable position of trying to placate a
public increasingly concerned about privacy while defending industry demands that Congress not interfere with
businesses' use of databases.
At a May 27 subcommittee markup, Democrats pushed for approval of the most far-reaching privacy measure
offered so far in this year's debate over a financial services overhaul. The amendment failed, but Republicans
approved a weaker privacy measure and Democrats vowed to continue pushing for more.
The markup by the House Commerce Subcommittee on Finance and Hazardous Materials was generally a
bipartisan effort, and the underlying bill (HR 10) was approved, 26-1. The full committee is likely to mark up HR 10
the week of June 7, a Republican committee staff aide said.
The bill would undo Depression-era laws restricting cross-ownership among banks, brokerages and securities firms.
These restrictions, contained in the 1933 Glass-Steagall Act and the 1956 Bank Holding Company Act, were
enacted to help avert widespread financial failures, but a consensus has emerged that they are outdated and should
be repealed.
The most powerful financial interestsin the nation are keeping watchful eyes on every detail of the legislation, and
they are lobbying hard to win competitive advantages. The subcommittee adopted by voice vote an amendment by
Chairman Michael G. Oxley, R-Ohio, that would require companies to disclose their privacy policies to consumers.
Oxley said that would let people “vote with their feet” if they did not like a company's policy. Several Democrats said
it was a positive step, but insufficient.
The Commerce Committee shares jurisdiction on HR 10 with the House Banking and Financial Services Committee,
which approved the bill March 11 with a similar privacy policy disclosure requirement, along with additional
provisions to restrict the sharing of medical information.
The Senate financial services overhaul bill (S 900), which passed May 6, does not contain any such privacy
requirements. The Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee will hold a series of hearings on privacy
beginning June 9, said committee spokeswoman Christi Harlan.
Greater Restrictions Pushed
Rep. Edward J. Markey, D-Mass., said Oxley's amendment would not do enough, and he mocked financial services
industry lobbyists — who stand to reap big profits from the legislation — for complaining that some privacy
protections would ruin the bill.
He offered an amendment, which was defeated, 8-19, that would have required companies to get permission from
customers before sharing information with third parties. It also would have required conglomerates to give
consumers the right to opt out of information-sharing among affiliates of the same company. Markey said lobbyists
were warning of “unintended consequences” if Congress passed strong privacy legislation, when what lobbyists
were most concerned about was protecting their ability to make money from consumer information. “They don't want
anybody to have the right to say no,” Markey said.
John D. Dingell of Michigan, ranking Democrat on the full committee, said he supported Markey's amendment
because without it, there would be nothing to prevent companies from selling personal and potentially embarrassing
information to such media outlets as People magazine or radio personality Howard Stern.
Republicans said Markey's approach was too far-reaching and would invite litigation against companies that make
honest mistakes.
“I think we need to work this through a lot more carefully,” said W.J. “Billy” Tauzin, R-La. He added that sometimes
consumers benefit from information-sharing when companies direct products and services at people who might want
them.
Unitary Thrifts
A seesaw issue in the financial services debate this session has been whether to continue to allow federal savings
and loan institutions, or “ unitary thrifts,” to be purchased by commercial companies. The issue, which cuts across
party lines, was the subject of lengthy debates in the House Banking Committee and on the Senate floor.
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 11 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
There is general agreement that any new thrifts should be prohibited from affiliating with commercial firms. However,
the thrift industry and its allies in Congress have fought strenuously against attempts to prohibit existing thrifts from
affiliating with commercial firms. The House Banking version of HR 10 originally prohibited the sale of thrifts to
commercial firms, but that restriction was stripped in a close vote at the March 11 markup. The Commerce panel's
original bill would have allowed the sale of thrifts to commercial firms, but that was reversed, 15-13, by an
amendment by Steve Largent, R-Okla.
In the Senate, S 900 originally would have allowed thrifts to affiliate with commercial firms, but that position was
reversed by a floor amendment.
Operating Subsidiaries
The bill approved by the Commerce subcommittee would prohibit banks from conducting non-banking activities, such
as insurance and securities underwriting, in operating subsidiaries. Instead, such activities would have to be
operated in affiliates under the umbrella of a holding company, as favored by Federal Reserve Board Chairman
Alan Greenspan.
The subcommittee position puts the bill more closely in line with the Senate bill, but contrasts sharply with the
House Banking Committee version, which would allow the subsidiary arrangement for all but the largest banks.
Whether to allow banks to operate non-financial activities in subsidiaries has been a key issue in the debate, but
the Commerce subcommittee rejected the Banking Committee's position without a separate vote, by putting the
holding company requirement in its underlying bill.
It places the bill in conflict with the Clinton administration, which has threatened repeatedly to veto any bill that does
not allow banks to choose the subsidiary option. The disagreement has been characterized as a turf war between
Greenspan and the Treasury Department because the Fed oversees holding companies while Treasury regulates
bank subsidiaries. Both sides say their positions are based on what they believe to be the safest ways to structure
banks.
The subcommittee bill also would give greater authority to states to regulate insurance activities conducted in
nationally chartered banks than would the Banking Committee's version, a move that insurance agents favor but
banks generally oppose.
House Panel Approves Bill; Industry Prepares For Floor Fight
JUNE 12 House Republican leaders will face heavy pressure from banks and other financial industries in the weeks
ahead over privacy protections recently added to a financial services overhaul bill headed for the floor. Financial
industry representatives were seething over provisions added to the bill (HR 10) that would curtail businesses' ability
to sell and share data about their customers.
Republicans have struggled in recent weeks to restrain Democratic-led efforts to add privacy provisions to the bill.
Republicans said the provisions were too sweeping and could have unintended consequences that could hurt
consumers, while Democrats accused Republicans of bending to big financial interests that hope to reap substantial
profits from consumer data files.
The Commerce Committee approved HR 10 by voice vote June 10.
The bill would repeal restrictions on cross-ownership among banks, insurance companies and brokerages. Although
the industries generally agree on the need for the legislation, they disagree on many details as each sector seeks to
win competitive advantages or avoid disadvantages. However, the emergence of privacy as a significant factor in
the debate this year has given the industries a common rallying point.
Brian C. Conklin, director of legislative affairs for the Financial Services Council, said the privacy provisions added
to the bill are so onerous that “most, if not all” of the companies represented by his organization would oppose it.
The council's membership includes several large banks and insurance companies.
Dan Zielinski, media relations director for the American Insurance Association, called the privacy provisions
“disappointing,” and said he also expects across-the-board industry opposition. The Securities Industry Association
announced its objection to the privacy measures in a June 10 news release.
Markey Pushes Privacy
As he did at a May 27 markup in the House Commerce Subcommittee on Finance and Hazardous Materials,
Edward J. Markey, D-Mass., offered an amendment to require companies to get “opt-in” permission from customers
before sharing information with third parties, and to require conglomerates to give consumers the right to opt out of
information-sharing among affiliates of the same company.
The measure failed in the subcommittee but had greater success in the full committee. It was softened with a
substitute measure by Ohio Republican Paul E. Gillmor, which was approved by voice vote. The amendment as
approved would require companies to give consumers the right to opt out of information sharing among affiliates and
with third parties.
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 12 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
After the markup, Conklin said the financial services industries can support some privacy provisions, and he
suggested they might be able to live with an “opt out” requirement for third party information-sharing if the measure
were carefully crafted. However, he said proposals restricting information-sharing among affiliates of the same
company were not acceptable. “Affiliate sharing is not a problem,” Conklin said. “The horror stories are not there.”
The committee also approved, 25-23, an amendment by Greg Ganske, R-Iowa, to limit companies' ability to disclose
medical information about customers. Most Democrats opposed the measure, with some saying it contained so
many loopholes it would hurt consumer privacy overall. For example, the committee's ranking Democrat, John D.
Dingell of Michigan, said the amendment contained an exception for “research” that was so vague that it could
include marketing studies.
Thrift Disagreement Persists
Congress enacted the barriers to cross-ownership among banks, brokerages and insurance companies in response
to the Depression under the belief that they would help prevent widespread financial failures. A bipartisan
consensus has emerged in recent years that those restrictions are outdated, but Congress has tried and failed
numerous times to work out the details of an overhaul.
Regulation of savings and loan institutions has been a long-running point of contention. Unlike banks, these unitary
thrifts, as they are also called, are allowed to affiliate with commercial firms. Many lawmakers believe that mixing
banking and commerce is problematic and perhaps dangerous, and most support legislation to prohibit new thrifts
from affiliating with commercial enterprises.
However, there are splits within both parties over whether existing thrifts should be prohibited from affiliating with
commercial firms. Some members want to prevent those that are not already affiliated with commercial firms from
doing so in the future, while opponents say it would be unfair to change the rules for existing thrifts. The dispute has
prompted lengthy debates and close votes throughout the legislative process this session.
At the June 10 markup, Edolphus Towns, D-N.Y., sought to strip the bill of a provision restricting the ability of
existing unitary thrifts to affiliate with commercial firms. The measure failed, 23-26.
Insurance Measure Fails
The committee also rejected a measure by Thomas M. Barrett, D-Wis., to require insurers to compile and publicly
disclose demographic data about their policyholders and applicants.
Barrett said his measure would help curtail insurance “redlining,” the practice of systematically denying insurance to
specific geographic areas and groups of people. Opponents said it was well-intended, but would create a huge
government-mandated invasion of privacy. Michael G. Oxley, R-Ohio, said if an insurer asked an applicant about his
or her race, the insurer “would be in court before the ink was dry on the contract.”
Barrett's proposal was defeated, 17-28, on a nearly party-line vote. A second, weaker amendment by Barrett, which
would have required the Commerce Department to study whether insurers are discriminating and whether there is a
need for greater data collection, also was defeated, 19-23.
Shared Jurisdiction
The Commerce Committee shares jurisdiction over HR 10 with the House Banking and Financial Services
Committee, which approved the bill March 11. The two versions now head for the Rules Committee with differences
on several key issues including unitary thrifts, privacy provisions and regulatory oversight. Republican leaders will
have to sort out the differences before HR 10 heads to the floor.
The Senate financial services overhaul bill (S 900), which passed May 6, presents another set of positions to
reconcile if the bills make it to conference. The Senate bill does not contain the privacy requirements of either
House measure. The Senate bill also contains a controversial provision to scale back the reach of the 1977
Community Reinvestment Act (PL 95-128), which requires banks to document efforts to lend to all segments of the
communities they serve. Both House committees generally avoided changes to the reinvestment act.
Leaders Soften Privacy Language As Bill Heads for House Floor
JUNE 26 House leaders plan to hold a floor vote on a financial services overhaul bill before the July Fourth recess
after spending weeks reconciling conflicts on privacy, regulatory oversight and other key issues that emerged from
two committees with joint jurisdiction. Leaders decided to adopt much of the language from the Banking and
Financial Services Committee version of the bill, which contains less stringent privacy language and an oversight
structure favored by the administration.
Majority Leader Dick Armey, RTexas, said in a June 22 news briefing that he expects the House to take up the bill
(HR 10) the week of June 28. The reconciled bill would blend provisions from markups that took place in Commerce
(H Rept 106 -74, Part 3) on June 10 and in Banking (H Rept 106 -74, Part 1) on March 11. If the full House
passes a bill, further negotiations will be required in conference to settle differences with a Senate-passed overhaul
bill (S 900 — S Rept 106 -44).
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 13 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
The three versions differ significantlyin numerous ways, but all of them call for repealing provisions of the 1933
Glass-Steagall Act and amending the 1956 Bank Holding Company Act, which erected barriers between the
banking, securities and insurance industries. A consensus has emerged that the laws are outdated and harmful to
U.S. financial companies' ability to compete internationally.
As Congress has attempted to sort out the details involved with repealing the legislation, numerous differences have
emerged. Some have been partisan, others involve disputes among the affected industries, and still others have
pitted businesses against consumer groups.
Armey said the leadership had worked hard to come up with a bill that respected both committees of jurisdiction.
“We're not likely to pass this bill if either of the two chairmen are not in agreement,” Armey said.
Preparing for Action
Financial businesses and industry groups, many of which have contributed substantially over the past several years
to the campaigns of key players in the overhaul debate, have moved quickly in recent weeks to make clear their
positions on specific provisions in each House bill. Highranking members of the administration met at the White
House on June 14 with representatives of the banking and financial services industries to exchange views.
According to a participant at the meeting, White House officials said the administration cares most about two things:
making sure banks are allowed to conduct new financial activities through operating subsidiaries, and preserving
community reinvestment requirements.
Industry lobbyists at the meeting complained bitterly about the recent groundswell of congressional support for
measures that would limit the ability of corporations to share personal data about their customers, and they urged
the administration to put the brakes on this issue, according to the participant, who requested anonymity. The
administration expressed a willingness to weigh the industries' privacy concerns, but also indicated there was a
growing populist push for government to do more to help consumers protect their privacy.
Key areas of disagreement that House leaders had to reconcile included:
Regulatory oversight The Treasury Department has threatened to urge a veto of any bill that does not allow banks
to conduct financial services in operating subsidiaries, and the House bill would allow subsidiaries. Federal Reserve
Chairman Alan Greenspan, along with some influential members of Congress, has argued that the Treasury position is
dangerous, and that new financial services should be conducted separately through affiliates under the umbrella of
bank holding companies. The bill would allow subsidiaries for financial services except insurance underwriting and real
estate development.
Majority Whip Tom DeLay, RTexas, who was reported to be deeply involved in reconciling the Commerce and Banking
bills, also has indicated he supports this position, according to the Independent Community Bankers of America, which
represents smaller banks. The leadership likely will allow a floor amendment that would adopt the Greenspan position
instead, a Republican Banking Committee staff member said.
Privacy The privacy push began in earnest at the House Banking markup. Members of both parties were reluctant to
delve into the issue, but the committee approved a modest, bipartisan privacy amendment as a compromise to thwart a
more sweeping privacy measure pushed by Democratic Rep. Jay Inslee of Washington. The adopted measure would
require financial institutions to disclose their privacy policies.
The Commerce Committee added even stronger privacy language that would require companies to give consumers the
right to opt out of information sharing among affiliates and with third parties. Business interests have grumbled loudly
that this would hurt their ability to provide a wide range of services that their customers want.
House leaders opted to include the Banking Committee's notification requirement, and did not include the Commerce
Committee's opt-out provisions. A Republican Banking staff aide said leaders planned to adopt a rule for the bill that
would allow floor consideration of a stronger privacy amendment.
Democrat Edward J. Markey of Massechusetts, who pushed for even stronger language than what Commerce
approved, said in a June 15 interview that Republicans are being forced to choose between the libertarians in their
party, who are deeply concerned about privacy, and their business constituents, who hope to make billions of dollars by
selling databases.
Markey said polls show Americans are concerned about privacy, and if House leaders refuse to allow a strong privacy
amendment to be offered, they will face a “public firestorm” of outrage. Consumer groups have supported stronger
privacy laws.
Republicans have tried to push privacy out of the financial services overhaul picture, pledging instead to take up the
issue separately and hold hearings. They have complained that Congress is jumping into the issue too quickly without
adequate study, and the hastily crafted privacy provisions could have unintended consequences.
The Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee already held a privacy hearing June 9, and the House
Banking and Financial Services Committee is scheduled to hold hearings July 21-22.
Banks and thrifts are generally willing to live with the weaker privacy provisions in the Banking bill,  but they objected to
the stronger measures in the Commerce bill.
Thrifts House leaders have attempted to forge a compromise between the two committees over whether to allow new
savings and loan institutions, or “unitary thrifts,” to affiliate with commercial firms. Banks, which are not allowed to
affiliate with commercial firms, see thrifts as having an unfair competitive advantage.
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 14 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
The Senate and Commerce measures also would prohibit existing thrifts from affiliating with commercial entities,
which banks support but the thrift industry opposes. The thrift industry supported the more lenient Banking
Committee bill on this issue.
House leaders chose to prohibit thrifts from affiliating with commercial firms unless such unions win the approval of
the Federal Reserve. The Fed has historically opposed any mixing of banking and commerce, so it is unclear what
this measure would mean for thrifts.
Community Reinvestment
The House bills agreed on community reinvestment, an area where the Senate bill diverges sharply. The 1977
Community Reinvestment Act (PL 95-128) requires banks to document their efforts to invest in all segments of their
communities. An unfavorable review from federal regulators could bring sanctions. The administration has threatened
to veto any bill that would scale back the reach of the reinvestment law.
While banks generally have been willing to live with the reinvestment provisions in the House bills, they are more
supportive of the Senate bill on this issue because it relaxes some reinvestment requirements.
Houses Passes Bill By Wide Margin; Leaders Hope for Edge in Conference
JULY 3 A strong, bipartisan vote for a financial services overhaul in the House on July 1 left leaders hopeful that
they will have a strong hand on key issues such as customer privacy when they begin negotiations with the Senate
on a final bill, possibly later this month.
Although Democrats and Republicans clashed over some elements of the bill (HR 10), lawmakers from both parties
wore broad smiles and crossed the center aisle of the House floor to shake hands after the final vote passing the
measure, 343-86, shortly before midnight. It was Congress' last major action before the July Fourth recess. (Vote
276, p. H-94)
The scene was in sharp contrast to the Senate, where a companion overhaul measure (S 900) was approved
largely along party lines in the Banking Committee and on the Senate floor earlier this year.
While not abandoning his trademark caution and understatement, House Banking and Financial Services Chairman
Jim Leach, R-Iowa, was clearly enthusiastic after the July 1 vote. “I'm optimistic, but I can give no assurances of
anything,” Leach said.
“I don't want to suggest that margins are the be-all and end-all of lawmaking, but they're helpful,” he added when
asked about House leverage in the conference negotiations. Leach said he hoped the two chambers would head to
conference before the August recess.
The bills would repeal decades-old laws restricting affiliations among banks, brokerages and insurance companies,
and establish a new regulatory framework for overseeing the conglomerates that would be created under the bill.
Although Congress has worked for decades to repeal the restrictions, the House vote marked the first time both
chambers approved an overhaul measure in the same session of Congress.
The administration issued a statement saying it supports the House bill, although it added that it would like to see
numerous changes.
John D. Dingell of Michigan, ranking Democrat on the Commerce Committee, voted against the bill, predicting that
the mega-mergers it would allow could re-establish the conditions that led to the stock market crash of 1929 and
the hard times that followed.
Power To Deal on Privacy
John J. LaFalce, D-N.Y., the ranking member on the House Banking Committee, said the margin of victory would be
particularly helpful in conference when debating the controversial issue of protecting customer privacy.
When it reached the House floor, the bill included limits on the sharing of medical information and bans on “pretext
calling,” the practice of using false pretenses to obtain financial information about someone from a bank. In addition,
the House approved, 427-1, an amendment that would require financial institutions to give consumers the right to
opt out of the disclosure of financial information to unaffiliated third parties.(Vote 274, p. H-94)
The Senate bill contains no similar provisions. LaFalce said the overwhelming House vote would make it unlikely
that privacy protections would be stripped from the bill in conference.
Democratic Reps. Jay Inslee of Washington and Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts expressed disappointment on
the floor that they were not allowed to go even further than the approved legislation. Markey wanted to offer a
broader “opt out” amendment that would have applied to both affiliates and third parties but was prevented from
doing so by the rule.
Still, LaFalce praised the two for taking the lead on privacy, saying that because of their efforts, Democrats were
able to get everything possible on privacy issues without provoking widespread industry opposition to the bill. “We
pushed them to the wall,” LaFalce said.
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 15 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
The financial services industries have fought Democratic efforts to strengthen provisions in the bill that would limit
the ability of financial institutions to share personal data with affiliates and third parties.
Democrats accused the industries of opposing privacy restrictions because they stand to make billions of dollars
from consumer databases that contain everything from Social Security numbers to information about check-writing
habits. The industries have argued that privacy provisions would have unintended consequences that could hurt
their ability to serve consumers.
Though House Republicans tried to fend off an onslaught of Democratic privacy amendments in the Banking and
the Commerce committees, as well as on the floor, they have softened their position in recent weeks and have been
willing to accept some privacy measures.
Other amendments considered on the floor included:
Insurance and domestic violence Democrats assailed Republicans for tying a domestic violence proposal
supported by Democrats into a single amendment with a provision that would make it easier for some mutual insurance
companies to reorganize into stock companies.
LaFalce said the mutual insurance portion of the amendment was focused specifically on enriching the top executives of
the companies at the expense of policyholders, who would have no say in the transactions. “It is a payoff to the mutual
insurance industry, no more, no less,” which would fail if acted on by itself, LaFalce said. Supporters said the change
would have a limited impact and would help mutual companies raise capital.
The other part of the amendment would prohibit insurers from discriminating against victims of domestic violence.
LaFalce failed in a procedural effort to separate the two items, and the amendment passed, 226-203.(Vote 273, p. H-94)
Bank insurance sales The House adopted by voice vote an amendment by Melvin Watt, D-N.C., to prohibit banks
from requiring customers to purchase insurance products from an affiliate or subsidiary as a condition of a loan.
Bank customer profiling The House rejected, 129-299, an amendment by Ron Paul, R-Texas, Bob Barr, R-Ga.,
and Tom Campbell, R-Calif., that would have loosened banks' requirements to file “suspicious activity reports” about
unusual bank transactions. The amendment came under withering attack from members of both parties, who said it
would make it easier for drug dealers to launder money. Leach called the amendment “an absolute assault on law
enforcement.” Bill  McCollum, R-Fla., added, “This is no time to retreat in the war on drugs.” Barr said his colleagues
were overreacting. “It takes nothing away from law enforcement,” he said. (Vote 269, p. H-92)
Working With the Senate
House and Senate conferees will have to resolve a number of important differences between the two bills. The
Senate bill would scale back the 1977 Community Reinvestment Act (PL 95-128), which requires banks to document
their efforts to invest in all segments of their communities. An unfavorable review from federal regulators could bring
sanctions. The administration has threatened to veto any bill that would limit the reach of the reinvestment law.
The administration also favors the House bill on another key issue — the basic way that financial conglomerates
should be structured. The House bill would permit banks to conduct most financial activities through subsidiaries.
The Senate bill generally adheres to the position of the Federal Reserve, which believes banks should be required
to conduct non-banking financial activities separately through affiliates under the umbrella of a holding company.
Both sides claim their positions are based on what is best for the safety and stability of financial institutions, but the
two organizations also have a stake in the outcome. The Treasury Department regulates subsidiaries while the Fed
regulates bank holding companies.
Phil Gramm, R-Texas, chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, has said the Senate's position on both the
reinvestment issue and the regulatory dispute are important to him. He has said he is willing to compromise in
conference, but he has not offered specifics.
“We now have it within our grasp to pass a good bill,” Gramm said in a July 1 statement. “We face some very high
hurdles, and negotiations will require a tremendous effort.”
Difficult Start
House action on the bill got off to a rocky start when Democrats tried to rally their entire caucus against the rule that
Republican leaders had crafted for floor debate. The rule allowed just 11 amendments and left Democrats fuming
over items excluded from consideration. They were particularly angered over the exclusion of an amendment by
Barbara Lee, D-Calif., to pre-empt state insurance laws and ban insurance “redlining,” the practice of refusing to sell
insurance in specific geographic areas, usually poor neighborhoods. The measure had been approved by the House
Banking Committee, but was stripped by the Rules Committee.
“This is not a rule. It is a gag rule,” Dingell said. Leach said he was “not a great enthusiast for this rule,” and would
have preferred allowing Lee to offer her amendment, but he said the bill would make progress on consumer
protection in numerous other respects. The rule was adopted, 227-203, with six Democrats defecting to support
it.(Vote 264, p. H-92)
At the end of the evening, the Democrats made one final push to reinsert the Lee amendment, along with two
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 16 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
At the end of the evening, the Democrats made one final push to reinsert the Lee amendment, along with two
proposals to strengthen privacy provisions in the bill, in a motion to recommit. The move was defeated, 198-232.
(Vote 275, p. H-94)
Although they have disagreed on many facets of the various overhaul bills considered in recent years, some
financial services groups — including the American Insurance Association and the Securities Industry Association —
quickly expressed support for the House action.
Conference-Bound Bill Gets Boost From Democratic Vote-Switching
JULY 10 When House and Senate negotiators meet later this month to iron out differences between their
competing financial services overhaul bills, it will be an unprecedented event in the decades-long effort to undo the
Depression-era laws that restrict cross-ownership among the nation's banks, brokerages and insurance firms.
The very fact that a House-Senate conference is needed is perhaps the most remarkable development of all: Never
before has an overhaul measure passed both chambers in the same legislative session. The House bill (HR 10 — H
Rept 106 -74, Parts 1-3) also marks the first time that a financial services rewrite has emerged from either
chamber with overwhelming bipartisan support and the backing of the White House. This year also has been a
turning point for the industries most affected by the legislation. They have been more willing to compromise than
ever before to get a deal done.
Both HR 10 and the Senate bill (S 900 — S Rept 106 -44) seek to repeal barriers among banks, brokerages
and insurance firms that were enacted in response to the Depression in the belief that they would help stem
widespread financial failures.
A broad consensus has emerged in recent years that the laws are outdated, and numerous efforts have been made
to revise them. However, writing new laws to repeal the barriers while ensuring the safety and stability of the U.S.
financial system has proved complicated and divisive. The affected industries have lobbied heavily to win
competitive advantages, and members of Congress have fought over consumer protection, financial privacy
measures and community reinvestment requirements, among other issues.
Groundswell in the House
The legislation gained significant momentum going into conference thanks to the lopsided, 343-86, House floor vote
for HR 10 on July 1. Of the 343 members who voted “yes,” 130 changed their positions from 1998, when the
predecessor to HR 10 passed by only one vote. (1998 Almanac, p. 5-3)
Seventy-four of those voting “no” last year but “yes” this year were Democrats, including Minority Leader Richard A.
Gephardt of Missouri and Minority Whip David E. Bonior of Michigan.
Democrats said their change of heart was due largely to provisions added to the bill intended to protect the privacy
of financial and health records, and to the fact that the Clinton administration supports the bill.
Last year's legislation would have required the new financial conglomerates to organize in holding companies, a
position vehemently opposed by the Treasury Department. This year's version would allow most companies to
organize insurance and securities businesses as operating subsidiaries of the parent bank, a plan the department
advocates.
But underlying the bill's change of fortunes in the House was the fact that most of the industries that had been
feuding for decades over rewriting the so-called Glass-Steagall anti-affiliation laws had laid down their arms.
“We had much more consensus in the private sector,” said Robert A. Rusbuldt, a lobbyist for the Independent
Insurance Agents of America (IIAA). “You had the IIAA and the American Bankers Association supporting the bill.
We have been throughout the last 20 years the two major players. Usually, it was one or the other supporting or
opposing. That dynamic didn't exist this time.”
Such disputes among the industries had often split the House and Senate along regional lines in votes on their
issues. Midwesterners and Southerners, for instance, tended to side with the small bankers and insurance agents.
Those on the coasts were more sympathetic to big banks and brokerages.
But this year, the divisions crumbled. Few industries opposed a bill whose rough points had mostly been smoothed
out. One group that did oppose the measure, the Independent Community Bankers of America, spent much of its
efforts trying to bring down the rule (H Res 235) that allowed the bill to come to the floor. It passed on a mostly
party-line 227-203 vote.
“Really, that was the key vote,” said Kenneth A. Guenther, a lobbyist for the group, which represents small,
independent banks. “I don't think there was a fight from any quarter on final passage. I think the fight was over the
rule.”
While banks were angry that the Rules Committee had not allowed REpublican Steve Largent of Oklahoma to offer
amendments that would have blocked commercial firms from buying thrifts, they gave up their fight after the rule
passed.
In contrast, last year most medium and small banks, joined by some large ones, fought passage of the bill tooth and
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 17 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
In contrast, last year most medium and small banks, joined by some large ones, fought passage of the bill tooth and
nail. Republican leaders eked out a one-vote victory only after then-Speaker Newt Gingrich, R-Ga. (1979-99),
twisted arms on the floor, causing half a dozen Republicans to switch from “no” to “yes” votes or to vote “yes” at the
last minute.
Before that, the House had never passed an overhaul of the 1933 Glass-Steagall law. Then-GOP Conference
Chairman John A. Boehner of Ohio, who was in charge of shepherding the bill to passage, declared that “a onevote
victory looks like a landslide.”
New Leadership
Times have changed greatly since then. Gingrich and Boehner have been dethroned, and those who took their
places have been more willing to compromise with the administration and win Democratic support than to twist the
arms of their own members, at least on banking issues.
And the industries, sensing a chance for a historic overhaul that many say is critical if they are to compete with
foreign financial services firms, have largely halted their bickering. “I am absolutely convinced a bill will be sent to
the president,” Rusbuldt said. “I'm not saying [it will happen] before the August recess, but I think it will happen this
year. It's just too close; there's too much history, too much that's been accomplished” not to see it to enactment.
Brian C. Conklin, acting president for the Financial Services Council, agreed, saying he expects conferees will be
named by the end of the week of July 12, and that a bill could be on President Clinton's desk before the August
recess. “It's absolutely within the realm of reason,” said Conklin, whose organization represents several large banks
and insurance firms.
Groups that have praised the House bill include the American Bankers Association, the American Insurance
Association, the Securities Industry Association, the Council of Insurance Agents & Brokers, the Financial Services
Roundtable, and America's Community Bankers. Although some have complaints about specific provisions, most
appear eager for the measure to pass.
Only one major financial industry group — the Independent Community Bankers of America — opposes the House bill.
It objects to a provision that would allow savings and loan institutions to affiliate with commercial firms with the
approval of federal regulators. Banks, which do not have the same ability to affiliate with commercial firms, complain
that thrifts have an unfair competitive advantage. Banks support language in the Senate bill that would prohibit new
and existing thrifts from affiliating with commercial firms. “We strongly oppose HR 10,” Guenther said.
Although the American Bankers Association, which represents larger banks, has grumbled about the thrift provision
in the House bill, it has not considered it sufficient cause to oppose the entire measure.
John J. LaFalce of New York was one of 13 Democrats on the House Banking and Financial Services Committee
who switched his vote to support the bill this year after opposing it last year. LaFalce, ranking Democrat on the
committee, said in a July 7 interview that the difference was that the Republican leadership pushed a bill last year
that was opposed by the administration. With the White House supporting this year's House measure, he said it was
much easier for many House Democrats to support it. “The administration was key,” LaFalce said.
Conference Battles Ahead
Industry and interest groups ranging from banks to civil rights organizations are gearing up for what perhaps will be
their last shot at influencing the legislation before it heads to the president's desk. Civil rights advocates, for
example, object to proposed Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) rollbacks in the Senate bill. The act (PL 95-128)
requires banks to document efforts to invest in all segments of the communities where they collect deposits.
“The CRA is a major civil rights issue,” the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights declared in a July 2 news
release. “Does the 106th Congress want to become known as the Congress that squelched the American Dream for
millions of hard-working Americans?”
The fight over thrifts is expected to continue into conference, as is the issue of operating subsidiaries vs. holding
companies.
Those three issues — thrifts, regulatory structure and community reinvestment requirements — will be the key points
of disagreement and debate in conference, industry observers said.
The White House has threatened to veto any bill that does not allow banks to conduct most non-banking financial
services in subsidiaries. It also has pledged to veto any bill that rolls back reinvestment requirements.
Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee Chairman Phil Gramm, R-Texas, has stuck just as fiercely to
the holding company requirement in the Senate bill, and he has offered no concrete proposals yet for a compromise
on community reinvestment.
Gramm's Big Role
Although House leaders said they believe the big margin of support for their bill will give them leverage in
conference negotiations, observers warned against underestimating Gramm, who has touted his Senate bill as a
cleaner deregulation measure. They suggest that Gramm will likely be the strongest presence in the conference
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 18 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
cleaner deregulation measure. They suggest that Gramm will likely be the strongest presence in the conference
debate.
“I think the House will have, at least going into conference, the perceived upper hand,” said Rusbuldt of the
independent insurance agents' group. But he added, “Having worked closely with Phil Gramm, I wouldn't
underestimate this guy in any way, shape or form. He will know his issues inside and out.”
Conklin of the Financial Services Council noted that Gramm almost single-handedly derailed last year's overhaul bill
in the Senate. “I don't underestimate Chairman Gramm and what he can accomplish,” Conklin said. However,
Rusbuldt and Conklin both said Gramm appears to want to pass a bill that Clinton would sign.
“Gramm has always said, ‘Just get me to conference. … Give me the CRA provision I want and give me some
wiggle room in conference committee,’” Rusbuldt said.
"His implication always was, ‘If the Senate gives me what I want, I am willing to compromise in
conference committee.’ He's positioned now for compromise. The question is how far will the
administration and the Democratic leadership compromise on CRA."
Roster Dispute Marks Beginning Of Conference
AUGUST 7 Deep fissures among Republicans have cast a pall of uncertainty over a House-Senate conference on
legislation to overhaul the financial services industry, and negotiators who will resume work after the summer recess
hope staff members can resolve some issues in their absence.
Financial industries will be watching nervously for more Republican defections on privacy issues after a key GOP
senator came out in favor of tough new privacy laws for financial institutions.
Conferees met for the first time Aug. 3 to draw battle lines on the bill (S 900, formerly HR 10), which would repeal
decades-old laws restricting affiliations among banks, brokerages and insurance companies. In the only official
action, they named House Banking and Financial Services Chairman Jim Leach, R-Iowa, as conference chairman. A
procedural flap prompted Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Chairman Phil Gramm, RTexas, to declare
that there would be no more meetings until the dispute was resolved.
Gramm complained that Leach allowed the committee to include more House Democrats than House Republicans.
House conferees were drawn from four committees, including Judiciary and Agriculture. Most came from the
Banking and Commerce panels, each of which was allotted eight Republican and six Democratic seats. To represent
Banking, Leach selected the eight most senior Republicans. Democrats, however, chose to rotate their seats among
lawmakers assigned to various sections of the bill. As a result, House conferees total 22 Democrats and 20
Republicans.
Gramm said all 22 Democrats would be entitled to a final vote on the conference report. “That problem needs to be
resolved,” he said.
House GOP Banking spokesman David R. Runkel said the conference roster should not be a problem because
House Republicans will hold a majority on every section-by-section vote along the way to final passage. He said
that if necessary, the House parliamentarian could settle what to do about the overall vote, perhaps by ruling that
part-time conferees are entitled only to partial votes. But Gramm spokeswoman Christi Harlan said her boss was
convinced that the matter is more serious and needs to be resolved before the conference resumes. Meanwhile,
conferees agreed to push staff members to resolve policy disagreements between the House and Senate versions
of the bill.
Shelby Joins Privacy Push
Privacy has become the most highprofile issue in the overhaul debate, particularly in the House, where Republicans
fought in committee and on the floor to sink or weaken Democratic-led proposals to impose tough restrictions on the
ability of financial institutions to sell or share customer data. The House bill would require financial institutions to let
customers “opt out” of information-sharing with unaffiliated third parties. The Senate bill contains no such provisions.
At the Aug. 3 conference session, Sen. Richard C. Shelby, R-Ala., announced that he supports imposing substantial
new limits on banks' ability to sell and share data about their customers. As the second-ranking GOP member of the
Senate panel, Shelby represents a key Republican defection on the privacy issue. Several other Republicans have
not yet announced positions.
The financial industries have grudgingly accepted some of the tamer privacy proposals discussed, such as the
House “opt out” provision. However, they have vehemently opposed more stringent privacy measures offered by
Democrats, such as “opt in” proposals that would require financial institutions to get permission from customers
before sharing financial information.
The financial industries have complained that far-reaching privacy proposals could have unintended consequences,
such as making it more difficult to cross-check data for fraud.
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 19 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
Shelby did not specify which privacy provisions he supported, but he made it clear that he would support strong
measures. Congress should not pass a bill “just to satisfy Wall Street,” he said.
Brian C. Conklin, acting president for the Financial Services Council, said he was surprised by Shelby's statement.
Conklin, whose organization represents several large banks, brokerages and insurance firms, said he did not know
whether other Republicans might follow Shelby's lead.
Staff members also face a daunting task in finding compromises on several issues that generate sharp
disagreements within both parties. Resolving them will require assembling bipartisan alliances likely to shift vote by
vote in conference. Such issues include whether thrifts should be prohibited from affiliating with commercial firms
and whether the Federal Reserve or the Treasury should oversee the new financial conglomerates that would be
created under the bill.
Clamor Over Consumer Privacy Puts Banks On the Defensive
AUGUST 14 When U.S. Bancorp was accused earlier this year of improperly selling information about customers'
account balances, telephone numbers, addresses and credit card purchases to an outside marketing firm, CEO Jack
Grundhofer defended the company by saying that such sales were an “industrywide practice.” But Minnesota's
attorney general had taken a dimmer view. He filed a complaint against Bancorp, the nation's 13th-largest bank
holding company, alleging that it committed consumer fraud and engaged in deceptive advertising when it sold the
information without customers' knowledge or consent.
Bancorp quickly sought to settle the matter, and the attorney general announced in June that the company would
stop selling data to third parties. The bank admitted no wrongdoing, but it paid $3 million in fines and contributions
to charities. Because the lawsuit was settled out of court, it did not answer the question of whether the bank's
actions were illegal.
Nevertheless, the case could have a profound impact on the future of privacy laws and regulations. In the same
way that state lawsuits against tobacco companies eventually led to sweeping federal involvement in the issue, the
Minnesota case could be a catalyst for federal action on privacy. When tobacco litigators won the cooperation of
Liggett Group Inc., which sells tobacco products, it helped expose previously confidential industry documents
containing evidence that eventually pushed the tobacco industry toward a deal. (Tobacco, 1998 Almanac, p. 15-3)
In similar fashion, the Minnesota case laid out the kinds of information that can pass from bank to telemarketer, and
some privacy advocates in Congress say it is something that ought to deeply concern the public. Consumer groups
and their congressional allies, who want to curtail companies' ability to sell or trade customer data, have frequently
cited the Minnesota case and Grundhofer's “everybody's doing it” defense as frightening evidence of the need for
more federally mandated privacy protections.
Privacy Issues Spread
Indeed, consumer privacy has become a key issue in numerous legislative arenas, including regulation of the
Internet and medical records. This year's financial services overhaul is another high-profile example. Congress is
under heavy pressure from consumer groups to curtail the ability of financial institutions to sell or share customer
data. The affected industries worry that their ability to cross-market products, detect fraud and perform routine
transactions could be jeopardized by such restrictions.
Congress is struggling to balance the demands of consumer groups, regulators and industry groups who have
sharply conflicting agendas on privacy issues. In the financial services arena, consumer groups demanding greater
governmentmandated privacy protections say they speak for a public increasingly wary of technology's potential
intrusiveness. Industry groups and regulators say they cannot do their jobs if their ability to examine and share
customer data is sharply curtailed.
Privacy is likely to play a prominent role in weeks to come in the ongoing House-Senate conference on the financial
services overhaul bill (S 900, formerly HR 10). Both versions of the bill would repeal decades-old restrictions on
cross-ownership among banks, brokerages and insurers. But the House and Senate versions differ sharply on
several details, and privacy is among a handful of issues that could sink the entire bill.
The House bill includes a provision that would require banks to allow customers to “opt out” of allowing banks to
share information with third parties. It also would require banks to disclose their privacy policies. The Senate bill
contains no such provisions.
Democrats, knowing they have some reluctant Republican allies who fear voting against consumer privacy
provisions, say they will not let up in their push for restrictions. In the House Commerce and Banking panels, which
share jurisdiction on the overhaul, Democrats pushed hard on privacy issues, and Republicans countered by offering
less far-reaching provisions as compromises.
The result was that although Democrats did not get as much as they wanted, they transformed a House bill that was
largely silent on the privacy issue into one with several new measures. Industry lobbyists have groaned that a
deregulation bill has become referred to as “the privacy bill” in some media outlets, including The Associated Press. A
motion to instruct conferees was adopted, 241-132, on the House floor July 30, calling on negotiators to push for
“the strongest consumer financial privacy protections possible.” The Clinton administration also favors strong privacy
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 20 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
“the strongest consumer financial privacy protections possible.” The Clinton administration also favors strong privacy
language.
Industry representatives and their allies in Congress, primarily Republicans, have warned against moving too quickly
with privacy restrictions. Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee Chairman Phil Gramm, R-Texas,
would prefer to handle privacy in separate legislation. Lobbyists for financial institutions warn that even routine
transactions, such as contracting with printers to produce check blanks for customers, require providing account
numbers to third parties and could become cumbersome or even illegal if Congress enacted tough new privacy
measures.
While groups representing banks, securities firms and insurers have bickered over numerous provisions in the bills,
they have coalesced to fight against new privacy proposals.
In prepared remarks for a July 21 hearing on privacy before the House Banking and Financial Services
Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, Washington attorney L. Richard Fischer said
excessive privacy rules would hurt consumers. Testifying on behalf of Visa USA, two major bank groups and the
Financial Services Roundtable, which represents some of the nation's largest bank and thrift-centered financial service
holding companies, Fischer said, “The ability to share information and out-source banking operations heightens
efficiency and promotes competition in the financial services sector, to the ultimate benefit of consumers.”
Consumer advocates and members of Congress who are arguing for strong privacy protections say financial
institutions are concealing their reasons for opposing them. Democrat Rep. Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts
said financial institutions are concerned mainly about the billions of dollars that can be made selling customers'
personal data to marketers who prize detailed financial information.
Consumers Union believes the privacy provisions in the House version are “riddled with loopholes,” and that the
debate boils down to a matter of corporate profits vs. consumer privacy. “We believe that consumers have a right to
decide whether their personal financial data is for sale to the highest bidder or can be shared with a multitude of
affiliated companies,” Consumers Union said in a July 20 news release. “Too often, information from consumers'
financial transactions is used against them to market worthless or overpriced products, such as credit insurance or
credit card protection.”
Consumers have become increasingly aware that bank information can provide a detailed rundown of their financial
status and spending habits. This has always been the case, but the information had little value other than for
internal record-keeping until computers made it quick and easy to categorize, compile and transmit. “ Technology
takes the friction out of the movement of information,” said Thomas P. Vartanian, an adjunct professor in the
graduate law program at Georgetown University Law Center.
Balancing Act
In a meeting with journalists July 19 arranged by financial services interests,Vartanian and industry representatives
said protecting privacy while giving consumers the services they want will require a delicate balancing act. Vartanian
cautioned against placing enormous obstacles to information-sharing that could hurt financial services companies.
While databases have transformed customer information into organized, movable commodities, banking has
undergone a transformation into a more automated, less personalized industry. Financial institutions have been
consolidating, expanding the reach of large banks at the expense of traditional hometown banks. With the growth of
Internet services and the use of automated teller machines (ATMs), face-to-face transactions between customers
and bank employees have become less frequent. Markey argues that with depersonalization, bankers tend to see
customers less as business partners and more as commodities to be exploited for maximum financial gain.
Industry representatives reject this notion, saying banks will always have to protect their reputations by treating
customers and their information with respect. Robert R. Davis, director of government relations for America's
Community Bankers, which represents the thrift industry, testified July 20 before the Financial Institutions
Subcommittee that if financial institutions are reckless with their customers' personal information, they will lose
business. “I can assure you that none of these community banks are making calls to their neighbors during dinner to
offer products,” Davis told the subcommittee.
Many industry groups have grudgingly accepted some of the tamer privacy proposals, such as requiring companies
to honor customer requests to opt out of some information-sharing practices with third parties. They have
vehemently opposed tougher measures, such as “opt in” proposals pushed by Markey and others that would require
financial institutions to get permission from customers before sharing information.
Making matters more complicated for lawmakers trying to find a compromise, smaller banks represented by the
Independent Community Bankers of America have staked out a position potentially putting them at odds with larger
banks.
Robert N. Barsness testified July 20 on behalf of the community bankers group, saying small banks are less likely
than larger banks to have non-bank affiliates and are more likely to contract with third parties to provide banking-
related services. Thus, small banks would be at a competitive disadvantage if Congress imposed an optout
requirement for third parties but not for affiliates, said Barsness, president of Prior Lake State Bank in Minnesota.
Public's Privacy Fears
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 21 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
Earlier this year, federal bank regulators provoked a powerful display of the public's concern over financial privacy
when they announced a proposed set of “know your customer” regulations. The proposal would have required banks
to report suspicious transactions to federal officials in an effort to detect money laundering and other crimes. It
prompted thousands of angry responses from citizens, and several GOP lawmakers joined the protest. The rules
were quickly dropped.
Voting for privacy provisions in the financial services overhaul could be trickier for Republicans than taking on the
“know your customer” proposal. Instead of blasting federal regulators, Republicans who support tougher data-
sharing restrictions for financial institutions would have to face down some of the most powerful groups that
traditionally support the GOP, including insurance companies and large banks.
Nevertheless, Republican defections on privacy have already begun. When the conference opened Aug. 3, Sen.
Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the second-ranking GOP member on the Banking Committee, announced that he
supported substantial new limits on banks' ability to disclose customer data. Shelby's move left lobbyists wondering
how many more Republicans would follow him. And House Financial Institutions Subcommittee Chairwoman Marge
Roukema, R-N.J., said July 20 that the bank privacy provisions were just a starting point for future action that would
“set the stage for more comprehensive privacy legislation.”
New Backroom Strategy Debated For Banking Bill
OCTOBER 2 Unable to agree on any difficult issues despite days of debate, GOP negotiators working on legislation
to overhaul the financial services industry planned to shift to a strategy of backroom deal-brokering among a handful
of party leaders to break the logjam.
Conference Chairman Rep. Jim Leach, R-Iowa, who had hoped to solve issues one by one through open debate,
reluctantly agreed to the more secretive approach over objections from Democrats.
Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee Chairman Phil Gramm, R-Texas, said at the Sept. 29
conference session that talks would stall unless GOP leaders exerted authority. Gramm suggested that he, Leach
and House Commerce Chairman Thomas J. Bliley Jr., R.-Va., meet privately to merge the House and Senate
versions of the bill (S 900). After a working proposal was on the table, other conferees could offer amendments. “I
think if we're going to finish a bill this year, that's what we're going to have to do,” Gramm said. “Part of being in the
majority is having the obligation to lead.”
The three met behind closed doors Sept. 30 with House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, R-Ill., and Senate Majority
Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss., and emerged with the leadership's blessing for Gramm's plan. GOP leaders in both
chambers have been under heavy pressure from industry lobbyists to move the bill before Congress adjourns for the
year.
Gramm promised that he would support the product that emerged from such a process, even if it included
amendments he opposed. But Democrats objected to Gramm's plan, saying the bill would need support from the
minority to avoid a presidential veto.
Leach, chairman of the House Banking and Financial Services Committee, said he wanted to continue open
discussions on the difficult issues before meeting privately to produce a GOP agreement, which could be ready as
early as Oct. 8. Conferees are tentatively scheduled to meet again Oct. 6.
The number of conferees is unusually large — 20 from the Senate and 46 from the House. A Senate GOP staff aide
said Leach's goal of avoiding closed-door dealing does not mesh well with such a large group. “It's a noble
objective, but it's a huge crowd,” the aide said.
The bill would repeal decades-old laws restricting affiliations among banks, brokerages and insurance companies.
Conferees on Sept. 29 approved by voice vote a list of 15 noncontroversial, mostly technical issues. On Sept. 29-30
they also discussed controversial issues, such as the privacy of consumer bank records and the 1977 Community
Reinvestment Act (PL 95-128), but did not take votes.
The reinvestment act, a law intendedto encourage banks to make loans in low-income neighborhoods, was a
particularly contentious issue. Gramm said the law has been abused by community groups to extract grants and
questionable loans from banks.
Gramm has proposed scaling back the law by exempting small, rural banks. He also wants to forbid community
groups from striking confidential deals with banks in which loans or grants are given to the group in exchange for
the group's silence or support of the bank's lending record. Democrats have objected to any attempts to curtail the
law, and President Clinton has vowed to veto the bill if it contains anti-reinvestment provisions.
United at Last, Financial Industry Pressures Hill To Clear Overhaul
OCTOBER 9 The House Banking Committee chairman wanted a lengthy, public debate with open votes to
encourage bipartisanship. His Senate counterpart said such a strategy would never work, that the majority party
needed to hammer out a deal behind closed doors or the bill would die. So financial industry lobbyists, sensing an
eleventh-hour logjam on legislation they had doggedly pursued for three decades, started an all-out blitz to get
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 22 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
eleventh-hour logjam on legislation they had doggedly pursued for three decades, started an all-out blitz to get
Congress moving again on an overhaul of the laws governing financial services.
The industry's effort to jump-start progress on the bill (S 900) is a case study in how a well-heeled and
wellorganized interest group can swiftly prod Congress to move, even on an issue about which most people outside
Washington and New York have little knowledge.
“This bill must pass,” said Carroll A. Campbell Jr., president and CEO of the American Council of Life Insurance, a
former Republican governor of South Carolina and former House member (1979-87).
Lobbyists could smell victory this year when, for the first time ever, both the Senate and the House passed overhaul
legislation. Then the bill appeared to bog down in a House-Senate conference as negotiators bickered over process
and failed to progress on substantive issues. So lobbyists leaned hard on the GOP leadership.
House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, R-Ill., and Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss., personally intervened to
force key Republican committee chairmen to get together and strike a deal. “The leadership turned up the heat, and
that's when things started to move,” said a top industry representative.
A consensus has long existed in Congress that the laws restricting crossownership among banks, brokerages and
insurers are outdated and need to be repealed. The barriers, enacted in response to the Depression to stem
widespread financial failures, are now considered a drag on the economy. But working out the details for a new
regulatory framework has been excruciatingly complex, sparking numerous fights among the affected industries.
Lobbyist Kenneth A. Guenther of the Independent Community Bankers of America, which represents smaller banks,
said industry lobbyists, congressional leaders and almost everyone else involved in the issue is weary of dealing
with it. They want the bill enacted before the end of the year. “They're just sick and tired of this, and they want it off
their backs,” Guenther said, adding that all three major industries are eager to expand their affiliations.
Some affiliations are already under way because of regulatory decisions favorable to the industry, but most major
financial groups still want Congress to provide a more established legal framework for diverse financial
conglomerates. The need for legislation was highlighted by the recent merger of the Travelers Group and Citicorp
into the Citigroup financial conglomerate. Regulators allowed the merger to go through, but Citigroup must sell off its
insurance activities within the next few years unless Congress approves an overhaul. (1998 Almanac, p. 5-3)
The financial industries have spent millions of dollars lobbying Congress and contributing to key election campaigns,
only to see overhaul efforts die time after time. In the first six months of 1999, political action committees
representing banks, brokerages and insurers gave at least $6.6 million to congressional candidates, according to
Federal Election Commission records. Of that amount, $1.2 million went to members of the House Banking panel, and
$480,000 went to Senate panel members.
Financial services companies argue that barriers against affiliation put them at a competitive disadvantage globally
because overseas competitors do not face similar restrictions. The Financial Services Coordinating Council — which
represents a broad swath of the affected industries, including bankers, insurance companies and securities interests
— warned in a Sept. 30 statement that failure to pass a bill “would be a great disservice to our nation's consumers,
investors and policyholders.”
Roadblocks of Substance, Style
Negotiators have had great difficulties with certain provisions in S 900, several of them — such as whether banks
should be required to keep affiliated insurance and securities businesses at arm's length under an umbrella holding
company — relatively disconnected from party politics. Coalitions shift from issue to issue, making it difficult to broker
deals. “There aren't going to be any clear winners or key losers in this bill,” Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, chairman of
the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee, said at a Sept. 23 conference session.
Conflicts in management style have also strained negotiations. Conference Chairman Jim Leach, R-Iowa, who chairs
the House Banking and Financial Services Committee, faced resistance to his leadership style from key members of
both parties, including Gramm and John D. Dingell of Michigan, the top Democrat on the House Commerce
Committee, which shares jurisdiction with Banking.
At the Sept. 23 session, Leach pushed the need for a tight timetable to finish the bill this year. He has argued for
open negotiations with public votes. But Gramm said progress could not be made unless GOP leaders struck a deal
privately. Dingell agreed that an open conference would likely go nowhere, and he suggested letting staff aides
hammer out agreements in private.
Gramm's ultimate intentions were unclear. In public comments he sometimes insisted that he wanted a bill and
sometimes seemed to dismiss the possibility that the conference could finish its work this year.
As progress slowed, some legislators warned that the overhaul was lumbering toward hibernation for the year, and
that it might be impossible to revive such a complex and contentious measure. Chuck Hagel, R-Neb., a member of
the Senate Banking Committee, worried that “this thing will just die of its own weight” if Congress cannot move it
within the next few weeks. “I don't think time is on our side here,” Hagel said.
Guenther, the lobbyist for small banks, agreed that waiting until next year could doom the bill. Numerous players
could decide to make new demands that would further complicate matters, and a drop in the stock market while
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 23 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
could decide to make new demands that would further complicate matters, and a drop in the stock market while
Congress was in recess could change the dynamics for the legislation in unpredictable ways, Guenther said.
A remarkable blitz of lobbying, public relations and backroom arm twisting got things moving on the bill. At a Sept.
29 conference session, Gramm suggested that the entire overhaul was going to die if Leach did not alter his
strategy. “I think we're fast coming to the moment of truth as to whether we're going to have a bill or not,” Gramm
said.
Gramm suggested that he, Leach and House Commerce Committee Chairman Thomas J. Bliley Jr., R-Va., meet
privately to hammer out a bill, and then return with a proposal for the other conferees to amend, followed by a final
vote.
Leach, who had gone out of his way throughout the bill's journey through the House to maintain bipartisan support,
balked at the proposal and stuck with his plan to hold lengthy debates followed by up-or-down votes, issueby-issue,
in open session. Gramm said in an interview outside the conference that such an approach would never produce a
bill.
Industry's Full-Court Press
Sensing that their best opportunity for legislation was losing momentum, industry lobbyists cranked up their efforts to
get things moving again. On Sept. 29, the same day Leach and Gramm argued over procedure, a coalition of
industry lobbyists visited Lott. They carried a simple, straightforward message: The financial industries want a bill
this year, and they are willing to line up behind one even if they have to swallow some tough provisions they do not
like.
Industry representatives also worked the media, stressing to reporters that the financial sectors interested in the bill,
which have a history of squabbling over nearly every detail of the legislation, have put aside their differences in the
interest of enactment.
On Sept. 30, the Financial Services Coordinating Council huddled with business reporters in a small Capitol Hill
meeting room to present a united message. Seeing the finish line at last, they agreed to focus on the larger goal.
There would be no talk of lines in the sand, and no provisions condemned as deal killers. “We now have a common
front,” said Marc E. Lackritz, president of the Securities Industry Association.
That same day, Lott, Hastert, Gramm, Bliley and Leach met behind closed doors to discuss strategies for the
conference. The financial industry is an important GOP constituency, and House and Senate leaders apparently
were feeling the heat.
The leaders leaned on the three committee chairmen to get a bill done, and they generally endorsed Gramm's way
of doing it, according to staff aides and lobbyists. The three chairmen would put together a bill behind closed doors.
Leach said the three wanted it done by Oct. 20, so Congress could act before adjourning for the year.
Later that day, at a scheduled conference session, Leach reluctantly explained the new plan, much to the chagrin of
Democrats. Leach vowed to pay “as much attention to a consensus product as we humanly can,” but Democrats
generally were unmoved. “It's a lot of things, but it's not bipartisanship,” said Paul S. Sarbanes of Maryland, the
Senate panel's ranking Democrat.
Although many issues do not break down along party lines, two key matters — the level of customer privacy
protections in the bill and the fate of a 1977 anti-redlining law — have been highly partisan. Leach appeared at
pains to insist that however reluctant he might be about the plan, he would have to stand firm.
Industry sources said Gramm, despite his partisan reputation, was working hard with Leach and Bliley to produce
balanced legislation that could garner at least some bipartisan support. Leach continued to hold public conference
sessions Oct. 6 and Oct. 7, but the real work was being done behind the scenes. Industry lobbyists continued to
maintain regular contact with GOP leaders, and the three chairmen met repeatedly the week of Oct. 4 to produce a
merged bill, according to industry and congressional staff aides.
As Conferees Tackle Final Issues, Leaders Promise Quick Floor Votes
OCTOBER 16 A bill to overhaul the federal regulatory structure for banking and financial services may go to the
House and Senate floors for final approval as soon as Oct. 20, on the heels of breakthrough negotiations among
congressional Republicans, on the one hand, and the Treasury Department and Federal Reserve, on the other.
The Clinton White House is still holding a veto threat over the bill (S 900) because of a continued dispute over anti-
redlining laws. A surprise Capitol Hill visit by the Rev. Jesse Jackson at the House-Senate conference negotiations
on Oct. 15 highlighted the pressure that consumer advocacy and civil rights groups are putting on the measure.
With only a handful of issues remaining, conferees are scheduled to finish merging the House and Senate versions
of the bill when they reconvene Oct. 18, and GOP leaders have said they want a vote on the floors of both
chambers almost immediately thereafter. The bill would overhaul the nation's financial services laws, removing
barriers to cross-ownership among banks, brokerages and insurers.
Advocates of the bill were upbeat when the Federal Reserve and the Treasury Department announced on Oct. 14
that they had reached a truce in their long-running and potentially deal-killing dispute over how the new financial
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 24 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
that they had reached a truce in their long-running and potentially deal-killing dispute over how the new financial
conglomerates that could be created under the bill should be structured and regulated.
And an agreement to include a provision prohibiting thrifts from affiliating with commercial firms removed another
potentially veto-inducing issue.
Lobbying Fast Track
Rep. Jim Leach, R-Iowa, Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, and Rep. Thomas J. Bliley Jr., R-Va., the three GOP committee
chairmen who merged the House and Senate versions of the overhaul, unveiled their backroom handiwork on Oct.
12. They reconvened the formal conference committee only two days later, opening their draft bill to amendment.
Industry representatives, administration officials and consumer advocacy groups worked quickly to establish and
work for their positions. Bank groups reiterated their longstanding plea for Congress to put a halt to the ability of
thrifts to affiliate with commercial firms. The administration quickly stated that, despite some compromises by Gramm
on the anti-redlining Community Reinvestment Act (PL 95-128), the bill was still veto material.
Finance industry groups warned conferees not to adopt far-reaching consumer privacy provisions, while consumer
groups and their allies in Congress pushed in the opposite direction.
On Oct. 13, Sen. Richard C. Shelby, R-Ala., and Rep. Edward J. Markey, D-Mass., joined other lawmakers at a news
conference announcing the formation of a new bipartisan Financial Privacy Coalition, with the stated goal of pushing
for stronger laws restricting the transfer of individuals' financial data. The group's eclectic membership includes the
American Civil Liberties Union, Phyllis Schlafly of Eagle Forum, and Ralph Nader of Public Citizen.
The conference draft generally adopted House-bill language placing some new privacy restrictions on banks, but
those measures fell far short of what consumer groups and other privacy advocates wanted. The White House also
wants stronger privacy provisions.
The provisions to amend the 1977 Community Reinvestment Act (CRA), which is intended to encourage banks to
make loans in low-income neighborhoods, could spell trouble for the bill. The law allows regulators to block banks'
applications for mergers or acquisitions if they do not have satisfactory CRA ratings.
The conference draft would reduce the frequency of CRA regulatory exams for rural banks and small urban banks.
It also contains a “sunshine” provision that would prohibit banks and community groups from striking confidential
deals intended to keep community groups from protesting a bank's reinvestment activities in exchange for loans or
grants.
Democrats have accused Gramm of gutting the CRA's effectiveness and taking the first steps toward eliminating it.
“The CRA is one of the most important tools that local communities have,” said Bruce F. Vento, D-Minn., a member
of the House Banking and Financial Services Committee.
John J. LaFalce of New York, the ranking Democrat on the House Banking Committee, sought to undo the CRA
changes, but House conferees rejected his amendment, 12-15.
The LaFalce amendment also would have restored a House bill provision (dropped in the conference draft) that
would have allowed civil penalties to be levied against banks for CRA non-compliance.
Gramm, chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, said the provision would have amounted to a dramatic
expansion of the law, and he accused Democrats of unfairly characterizing his proposed changes. “Nothing in our
bill undoes CRA,” he said.
Democrats warned that even though the GOP draft dropped a highly contentious provision exempting small, rural
banks from CRA compliance, the remaining CRA provisions were still unacceptable to the White House. Community
groups also objected to the bill's CRA provisions.
In an Oct. 12 news release, the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights said that reducing the frequency of inspections
would hurt CRA enforcement efforts and that the so-called sunshine provision would impose “onerous reporting
requirements” on banks and community groups.
Jackson, a vocal proponent of the CRA, attended the conference for several hours Oct. 15, huddling with Gramm
privately and talking strategy with supporters outside the conference. He was joined by John E. Taylor, president
and CEO of the National Community Reinvestment Coalition and a strong CRA backer.
In an interview outside the conference, Taylor said he had been informed by the administration that a veto threat still
hangs over the bill unless changes are made to the CRA provisions. Taylor also said CRA supporters were hoping
to fix the problems with the bill. “We're working on Gramm, for what it's worth,” Taylor said.
Turf War?
The eleventh-hour announcement by the Federal Reserve and the Treasury that they had settled their differences
raised the spirits of overhaul proponents.
The compromise — to allow banks to operate most financial services, except insurance underwriting and real estate
development, as subsidiaries regulated by Treasury — eliminated one of the administration's key veto-triggering
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 25 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
development, as subsidiaries regulated by Treasury — eliminated one of the administration's key veto-triggering
concerns. And Gramm said he would support anything that Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan endorsed.
The Fed, which regulates bank holding companies, had argued that financial conglomerates should be required to
keep non-bank affiliates at arms length by organizing them as affiliates under a holding company. The Treasury,
with the strong backing of the White House, insisted that banks be allowed to organize non-banking financial
activities in subsidiaries, which the Treasury oversees.
Some observers had complained that the Fed and the Treasury were engaged in a turf war because they argued
for positions that protected and potentially expanded their respective regulatory responsibilities. But officials from the
two agencies maintained that their positions were based on bank safety and soundness concerns.
Conferees on Oct. 18 will continue to debate proposed restrictions on the ability of financial institutions to share
customer data. The draft produced by the three committee chairmen generally adopted the privacy provisions from
the House-passed bill, albeit in somewhat weaker form. While banks are required to let customers “opt out” of
information sharing activities with third parties, an exception was carved out for joint marketing activities.
The change was made at the request of small banks, who argued that large banks with numerous, diverse affiliates
would be less encumbered by third-party privacy restrictions.
On Oct. 15, Senate conferees rejected, 6-14, a proposal by Shelby and Sen. Richard H. Bryan, D-Nev., to impose
extensive restrictions on the ability of companies to share data. The amendment contained an “opt in” provision that
would have required companies to get permission from customers before sharing data with affiliates or third parties.
Shelby urged his colleagues not to give in to a show of power by the financial industry lobby, which threatened to
oppose the bill if it contained opt-in provisions.
“I've never seen so many lobbyists in the hall,” Shelby said.
Gramm countered that opt-in requirements were onerous and harmful to consumers because they would be denied
information about services they might want. He also said the provision in the underlying measure requiring
companies to disclose privacy policies would give consumers the information they needed to decide whether they
were comfortable with financial companies' privacy policies, and they could take their business elsewhere if they had
doubts.
After the defeat of Shelby's amendment, Gramm argued that the privacy debate should be closed, but conference
Chairman Leach, who also chairs the House Banking panel, said he expected there would be more privacy
amendments offered Oct. 18.
In an Oct. 13 letter sent to all conferees, a coalition of industry groups warned Congress against going too far with
privacy proposals. Opt-in requirements would be so complex and cumbersome, it would be “the equivalent of a ban,”
the letter states.
"Our associations will support legislation containing the privacy provisions in the print released [Oct. 12].
However, our associations will find it necessary to oppose any legislation that … imposes opt-in
requirements and/or imposes new restrictions on the sharing of information among affiliates."
The letter was signed by the Securities Industry Association, the American Bankers Association, the American
Council of Life Insurance, the American Insurance Association, the Financial Services Council and the Investment
Company Institute.
White House, Conferees Reach Final Agreement
OCTOBER 23 A historic measure that would radically alter the financial services world is ready for approval by
Congress and President Clinton because of two committee chairmen with strong personal reasons for wanting a bill,
as well as a powerhouse lobby united to an unprecedented degree and determined that this year's opportunity
would not slip away.
As a result, the deal reached in the early morning hours of Oct. 22 eluded a number of pitfalls that doomed previous
efforts. The path was not easy. Conference negotiations, both public and private, were lengthy and often
contentious. But one by one, negotiators reached agreements that cleared the way for congressional approval of a
bill likely to win Clinton's signature.
The chief strategists were Rep. Jim Leach, R-Iowa, and Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, who chair their chambers'
respective Banking committees. Leach has watched in frustration as previous overhaul plans evaporated despite his
painstaking efforts to craft bipartisan agreements. Under House rules, he will have to relinquish his chairmanship at
the end of the 106th Congress, and this year's bill represented his last shot at passing the most sweeping financial
services legislation in decades.
For Gramm, a primary player in bringing down last session's overhaul in the Senate, taking the helm of the
Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee imposed a new set of responsibilities. Instead of playing spoiler over
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 26 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee imposed a new set of responsibilities. Instead of playing spoiler over
pet issues, Gramm found himself under heavy pressure from the GOP leadership to get a bill passed.
And although he stuck to his guns and won some of what he wanted on a controversial anti-redlining provision,
Gramm ended up agreeing to a finished product that was far different from the legislation he set before his
committee early this year.
Republican leaders were pushed by the financial services lobby, which was unwilling to let this year's effort get
away, particularly after the legislation reached the conference stage for the first time ever. Banks, brokerages and
insurance interests largely put aside their differences to get a bill, and they presented a united front, applying heat
several times when conference negotiations seemed to be falling apart.
Long Road
Negotiators painstakingly cleared away land mines to merge the House and Senate versions of the bill (S 900),
announcing at 2 a.m. on Oct. 22 that a deal was at hand. The bill would undo restrictions on cross-ownership
among banks, brokerages and insurance companies.
The road had been a treacherous one.
First the Federal Reserve and the Treasury Department had to resolve a long-running feud over the structure and
regulation of financial conglomerates by agreeing on a compromise. Negotiators then worked out language on the
privacy of customer financial records, which left some consumer groups and Democrats unhappy but drew an
approving nod from the White House. Negotiators also agreed to prohibit thrifts from merging with commercial
businesses, eliminating another potential veto point.
But one sticking point lingered. Gramm was butting heads with the White House over the Community Reinvestment
Act (CRA), a 1977 anti-redlining law (PL 95-128) aimed at forcing banks to make loans in poor neighborhoods.
Gramm said the law was excessively coercive and a heavy regulatory burden for small banks, and he insisted on
what he described as modest changes. The White House — backed by civil rights leaders such as the Rev. Jesse
Jackson — drew a line in the sand, saying any retreat on community reinvestment was unacceptable.
Conferees resolved the issue in the early morning hours Oct. 22 in a bipartisan agreement that sent a euphoric
cheer through the financial industry representatives who have been fighting for the measure for decades.
Cory N. Strupp, head of government relations for J.P. Morgan & Co., said the overhaul was the biggest financial
industry bill ever passed by Congress, including the landmark Depression-era legislation it would overturn. “The
scope of this bill is broader than anything that's been done before,” Strupp said.
In an Oct. 22 statement praising conferees, the American Bankers Association, which represents many of the
nation's largest banks, said outdated laws were crippling financial institutions' ability to compete. “For more than 20
years, banks and other financial institutions have been seeking the kind of legal reform that is contained in
legislation now on the verge of enactment.”
The administration is awaiting the drafting of final language before giving their final approval, but Treasury Secretary
Lawrence H. Summers all but gave the administration's endorsement of the bill, clearing the way for likely floor
approval and Clinton's signature before Congress adjourns for the year. “Nothing is done until the language is fully
reviewed,” Summers said in a handwritten statement distributed to reporters in the wee hours of Oct. 22. However,
Summers said that “ significant improvements” were made to the reinvestment provisions and that the administration
was “very pleased” with some key elements.
Conference committee Democrats also were optimistic but awaited the final language before giving their assent. In a
telephone interview Oct. 22, Paul S. Sarbanes of Maryland, the top Democrat on the Senate Banking Committee,
called the agreement a “major accomplishment.”
The Senate originally passed its version of the bill with only one Democrat joining Republicans in favor of it.
Sarbanes said he expected the conference agreement to draw much more Democratic support because of the
changes made in conference. “This bill is much better than the bill that passed the Senate,” he said.
The agreement with its new language will be circulated among conferees for their signatures, said House Banking
and Financial Services Committee spokesman David Runkel, so the report can be filed the week of Oct. 25.
Gramm a Key Player
Leach has been working on an overhaul bill for years, but it was Gramm who emerged as the key player in the
debate. He was the focus of the White House's attention, and the bane of community groups opposed to his efforts
to scale back reinvestment provisions.
Gramm thwarted Democrats in several areas, including consumer protection measures he considered unworkable
and onerous for business, but he also lost on at least two big points. He had insisted that he would rather deal with
consumer privacy in separate legislation, and he also opposed a provision preventing thrifts from affiliating with
commercial firms. Winning some concessions on reinvestment appeared to be his line in the sand. In an Oct. 22
statement, Gramm said he was pleased with the final product, which he predicted would “pass both houses of
Congress by large margins and … be signed by the president.”
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 27 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
In relation to the bill's gigantic scope, the proposed reinvestment changes seemed relatively minor, but both sides
dug in firmly on the issue for most of the week of Oct. 18, saying to compromise would be to sacrifice principles.
The law is intended to encourage banks to make loans in low-income neighborhoods, and it allows regulators to
block banks' applications for mergers, expansions or acquisitions if they do not have satisfactory reinvestment
ratings.
Leach, Gramm, and Rep. Thomas J. Bliley Jr. of Virginia, the three GOP committee chairmen who initially merged
the House and Senate versions of the overhaul, unveiled their backroom handiwork Oct. 12.
Their bill sought to reduce the frequency of reinvestment regulatory exams for many small banks. It also contained a
“sunshine” provision that would prohibit banks and community groups from striking confidential deals intended to
keep community groups from protesting a bank's reinvestment activities in exchange for loans or grants. Those
provisions were altered somewhat Oct. 22, but remained essentially intact in the final product.
Democrats warned that even though the GOP draft dropped a controversial provision to exempt small, rural banks
from reinvestment compliance, the remaining provisions were still unacceptable to the White House. Community
groups also objected.
Gramm's opponents accused him of trying to gut the 1977 law's effectiveness and take the first steps toward
eliminating it. House Banking panel ranking Democrat John J. LaFalce of New York sought to undo the changes in
the conference draft, but House conferees rejected his amendment.
With negotiations bogged down over community reinvestment, Summers paid a surprise late-night visit to Capitol
Hill on Oct. 18. It appeared that Republicans were ready to push ahead with reinvestment provisions that the White
House strongly opposed. Committee chairmen and ranking Democrats met with Summers for about two hours.
Over the next two days, fearing that the White House could be softening its stand on the reinvestment law and
ceding ground to Republicans, supporters of the law swung into action. On Oct. 20, Democrats Maxine Waters of
California, Melvin Watt of North Carolina, Stephanie Tubbs Jones of Ohio and Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts
held a news conference to denounce the GOP's proposed reinvestment provisions. Watt said he was concerned
about what the administration might be giving up in private negotiations with Gramm. “A group of men have retired
into a back room to discuss the communities' business,” Watt said. “I'm not happy about that.”
Watt added that his discussion with administration officials had not satisfied his concerns.
Marathon talks among Gramm, Summers and other White House officials continued through Oct. 20, when
Summers left Gramm's office late in the evening apparently believing he had reached a deal acceptable to the
administration. But the White House rejected it, according to several industry sources and a Senate staff aide.
Gramm insisted he had compromised repeatedly on the community lending law, first by dropping a provision
exempting small, rural banks from compliance, which he had done in the closed-door negotiations with Leach and
Bliley. In his discussions with White House officials, Gramm said, he made further concessions.
Gramm said he had altered the sunshine provision and modified the regulatory relief provisions, among other
changes, to move the bill toward the White House position.
In a somber news conference at 1 p.m. Oct. 21, Gramm said negotiations had failed to produce an agreement, but
that the conference would push ahead on the bill anyway in hopes that the concessions he had made would be
enough to avoid a veto.
In a conference session later that day, conferees discussed the reinvestment law but made little headway. Several
Senate Democrats who were enthusiastic about passing an overhaul bill, including Christopher J. Dodd of
Connecticut, Charles E. Schumer of New York and John Kerry of Massachusetts, urged Gramm to delay further
proceedings in hopes that more talks could avoid a veto.
Kenneth A. Guenther, executive vice president of the Independent Community Bankers of America, a group of
mostly small banks, said a large segment of the financial services industry wanted the bill, and it mobilized that day
to urge conferees to hold off if Gramm and the administration could not reach a deal.
“There's a large group of people, financial services industry people, who do not want this bill going down over CRA
for a second year running, and we are together conveying that message at the highest levels of the House and
Senate leadership,” he said.
But Republican leaders pushed ahead with the conference.
Break in Action Produces Deal
On the evening of Oct. 21, the conference session broke up for a series of House floor votes. As members drifted
back to the conference room, impromptu backroom discussions among committee Democrats and Republicans
appeared to be making headway. Leach recessed the conference so talks could continue.
Administration officials were present, but it was the Senate Democrats who had pushed for more time to get a deal
who were instrumental in getting constructive talks going, Senate Banking Committee spokeswoman Christi Harlan
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 28 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
who were instrumental in getting constructive talks going, Senate Banking Committee spokeswoman Christi Harlan
said. “The White House had already pooh-poohed the proposal that Treasury was OK with on Wednesday [Oct. 20]
night,” Harlan said.
Again sensing that a key moment could be at hand, backers of the 1977 law restated their demands. At about 10
p.m., the Congressional Black Caucus distributed a copy of a letter sent to Clinton urging him “to maintain your
strong support” of the law. The letter said, “Unless we maintain strong Community Reinvestment Act provisions, the
ongoing consolidation of the banking industry will adversely affect disadvantaged low- and moderate-income
communities.”
At around 2 a.m. Oct. 22, conference Chairman Leach emerged to say negotiators had reached a deal. One key to
the White House's support was a provision requiring that banks have a satisfactory reinvestment rating before
expanding into securities or insurance activities.
Some members and consumer groups expressed their displeasure with the legislation later Oct. 22. In addition to
their concerns about administration concessions on reinvestment, consumer groups were unhappy with the White
House on another score — its endorsement of the privacy provisions adopted earlier in the week.
After wrangling for hours over privacy amendments, conferees settled Oct. 18 on provisions similar to those passed
in the House.
The measure calls for banks to develop written privacy policies and disclose them conspicuously to customers, and
to give consumers the right to opt out of information sharing with unaffiliated third parties. In one exception, banks
would not be required to let customers opt out of joint marketing agreements with other financial institutions.
Republicans turned back several attempts by Democrats, some of them with some GOP support, to pass stronger
privacy measures.
Privacy Provisions Endorsed
The White House quickly endorsed the privacy provisions, and Democrats who fought for stronger measures said
they felt abandoned by an administration that previously had said it wanted strong provisions. They complained that
even though conference negotiations were ongoing, the administration's public endorsement ended the debate. “In
effect, they've cut our legs off,” complained Sen. Richard H. Bryan, D-Nev.
Republicans had opposed an amendment by Markey that would have allowed customers to opt out of information
sharing with affiliates as well as third parties, a position Markey said the administration supported in earlier
statements. Markey encouraged the White House to veto the bill over privacy provisions.
Republicans who substituted weaker privacy language for Markey's amendment said his provision would have
prevented companies from offering consumers a broad array of services.
Rep. W.J. “Billy” Tauzin, R-La., said provisions in Republican-backed privacy language offered by Michael G. Oxley, R-
Ohio, would provide sufficient protections by requiring companies to disclose their information-sharing policies,
allowing consumers to take their business to companies with privacy policies they could accept.
The amendment by Oxley closely followed language in the House bill, requiring companies to let customers opt out
of information-sharing with third parties. The Oxley amendment also contained a provision not in the House bill,
which would exempt joint marketing agreements from the optout requirement. Some Democrats called the exception
a huge loophole rendering the entire provision nearly meaningless.
House conferees approved the Oxley substitute, 20-10. After a few small amendments were also accepted, Senate
conferees approved the privacy measure by voice vote, and the House conferees adopted it, 22-7, with one
abstention.
Title Insurance
The bill would allow bank subsidiaries to sell title insurance to home buyers.
Conferees rejected an amendment by Rep. Spencer Bachus, R-Ala., that would have expanded states' ability to
regulate the sale of title insurance by national bank subsidiaries. Bachus said there were numerous potential
problems with banks selling title insurance, including conflicts of interest because bank title insurance subsidiaries
would be eager to clear potentially suspect titles so that their parent banks' loans would go through.
Gramm opposed the amendment, saying it would allow states to prohibit national banks from selling title insurance.
He argued that such a move would undermine the bill's central purpose, which is to tear down barriers among the
three industries.
“It makes absolutely no sense,” Gramm said of the Bachus amendment. House conferees approved the measure by
voice vote, but Senate conferees defeated it, 7-10.
Conferees rejected an amendment by LaFalce that would have stripped a provision from the bill allowing states to
pre-empt federal consumer protection standards on insurance sales and set lower standards. LaFalce said federal
consumer insurance protections should be a floor that states could exceed but not go below. Gramm said states
should be trusted to set their own standards. “I think it is possible that we don't know everything,” Gramm said.
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 29 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
Rep. Barney Frank, D-Mass., citing Gramm's positions on prohibiting state intervention in the sale of title insurance
but supporting the right of states to reduce consumer protection standards, accused Gramm of switching positions
on states' rights depending on the position most favorable for business.
Gramm said his position on title insurance was a matter of prohibiting states from discriminating against banks,
which would happen if banks were denied the right to sell certain kinds of insurance while insurers could engage in
banking.
One-Stop Shopping
Industry representatives who support the legislation see it as a boon for consumers and financial services
companies. They say consumers will benefit from one-stop shopping for financial services, lower-cost financial
products, special package deals, and increased competition as a growing number of financial conglomerates jump
into new service areas and vie for customers. (New world, p. 2504)
But consumer advocates worry that consolidation will reduce competition and customer choice. They also have
complained that the legislation fails to protect individuals from an assault on their privacy. They see a world where
faceless financial conglomerates compile detailed digital files containing personal information, and then sell it to the
highest bidder.
Industry supporters and consumer groups agree on at least two things though — the changes in the financial
industry will be profound, and nobody is exactly sure how they will go.
With the help of favorable decisions by courts and regulators, the financial services industries have already been
consolidating. Industry representatives said the legislation would not have an immediate, jarring impact on the
evolution of the financial world. Instead, it would probably accelerate changes that have already been going on for
years.
Some industry players will likely move aggressively to expand their reach, particularly large banks moving deeper
into insurance and securities, but some financial sectors may have little interest in branching out into new areas of
business.
The financial markets appeared to be pleased with the deal, although the reaction was subdued. Financial sector
stocks generally rose during trading Oct. 22, but much of that rise could be attributed to a good day across the
board for most stocks, said Raphael Soifer, a financial services analyst for Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New
York.
Bill Clears After Final Skirmish Over Community Reinvestment
NOVEMBER 6 The financial world breathed a sigh of relief as Congress cleared a historic, bipartisan rewrite of the
nation's banking, securities and insurance laws. President Clinton is expected to sign it.
Despite last-minute partisan sniping over the wording of the conference agreement, both chambers overwhelmingly
adopted it Nov. 4. The Senate vote was 90-8. The House cleared the bill (S 900), 362-57. (House vote 570, p. H-
184;Senate vote 354, p. S-70)
The bill would repeal key provisions of the 1933 Glass-Steagall Act, which erected barriers between the banking
and securities industries, and the 1956 Bank Holding Company Act, which erected barriers between banking and
insurance activities.
House-Senate conferees reached a bipartisan agreement in principle Oct. 22 that won tentative White House
approval. But hammering out the final text of the bill and agreeing on report language proved daunting. Republican
and Democratic House staff aides said Senate Banking Committee Chairman Phil Gramm, R-Texas, caused
problems by seeking language that veered away from the Oct. 22 agreement.
Among points of contention was the 1977 Community Reinvestment Act (PL 95-128), a law intended to force banks
to make loans in low-income areas. Gramm had fought to scale back the law, drawing the ire of community groups,
congressional Democrats and the White House.
Gramm did little to dispel reports that he contributed to the ruckus in the final negotiations. He said he was proud of
the finished product, had made concessions throughout the process and was going to fight to the end for whatever
he could get. “All these people were telling me what they've got to have,” Gramm said. “I thought it was a good time
for me to start demanding more myself.”
Gramm said the White House had tried to renege on the spirit of the Oct. 22 agreement, particularly on a
reinvestment “sunshine provision.” The provision would require disclosure of deals in which a bank offered grants or
loans to a community group in exchange for the group's support of the bank's reinvestment activities. Gramm
insisted that the community groups provide detailed reports on how they spend the grants or loans.
Despite lengthy fights, the bill emerged from conference with broad bipartisan support. In the House, 38 of 46
conferees signed the report. Some Democrats objected to what they called weak consumer privacy provisions or
insufficient protection for the reinvestment act. All but two of 20 Senate conferees signed the report. Richard C.
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 30 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
Shelby, R-Ala., and Richard H. Bryan, D-Nev., opposed it because, they said, it lacked sufficient privacy protections.
Some consumer and public interest groups also opposed the bill. Common Cause, a nonpartisan group that
supports an overhaul of campaign finance laws, said in an Oct. 29 publication that the bill was a sop to big
businesses, which have made millions in campaign contributions.
On the eve of passage, lobbyists and lawmakers celebrated. At a party in the House Banking hearing room, Federal
Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan and Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers mingled with guests and
congratulated House Banking Chairman Jim Leach, R-Iowa, who has spent years struggling to pass the bill.
Political Contributions
Bank, insurance and securities interests have made more than $30 million in “soft money,” political action committee
and individual contributions so far this year, with 60 percent going to Republicans, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics, a nonprofit group that tracks campaign contributions.
The center noted that key events in this year's overhaul efforts coincided with heavy political contributions by
Citigroup Inc., which would have had to sell some insurance operations if the bill were not enacted. On May 6, when
the Senate passed its version, Citigroup made a $20,000 soft-money contribution to the 1999 Republican Senate-
House Dinner and a $35,000 soft-money contribution to the Republican National Committee. On June 23, shortly
before the House took up the overhaul, Citigroup gave $50,000 to the Democratic Congressional Campaign
Committee.
Questions about Citigroup's involvement with the bill were heightened with the Oct. 26 announcement that the
company had hired former Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin as co-chairman. The Independent Community
Bankers of America, which represents smaller banks and has been lukewarm about S 900, said in an Oct. 29
newsletter, “The revolving door between high Treasury and White House officials and powerful financial firms is
nothing new. But the timing of this one is particularly troublesome.”
Features
Who Wants What
FEBRUARY 27 With financial services legislation scheduled for markups in the Senate Banking, Housing and
Urban Affairs Committee on March 3 and the House Banking and Financial Services Committee on March 4,
lobbyists, consumer groups and regulators will be working overtime to guard their interests. The following is a
rundown of what major players want:
Banks Large banks want to use the legislation as a road map to move forward with consolidation of financial services.
Small banks, which have less capacity to branch into other financial services, are not as enthusiastic. But large and
small banks see the legislation as a way to scale back unitary thrifts, which they regard as competitors with unfair
advantages.
Banks favor federal oversight of their insurance and securities activities rather than having to deal with 50 sets of state
rules and regulators. At the federal oversight level, banks want bank regulators rather than the Securities and Exchange
Commission to oversee banks' securities activities.
Small banks generally oppose the mixing of banking and commerce. Large banks support it on a limited basis.
Insurance State insurance agents and regulators want state oversight of bank insurance activities. State
regulatorssay they are best able to protect consumers. Insurance agents fear that banks might gain a competitive
advantage if they were subject to less rigorous federal controls.
Insurance companies take a different view, and support language in HR 10 giving federal authorities a substantial role in
regulating bank insurance activities.
Securities State securities regulators who currently share regulatory chores with the SEC want this dual oversight to
include bank securities activities. Banks want to nudge state and federal securities regulators out of the picture and
instead report to banking regulators. The SEC opposes giving federal banking regulators primary oversight of banks'
securities activities.
Consumer groups Consumer groups want to protect and expand the 1977 Community Reinvestment Act. They also
want state oversight of insurance because they generally perceive state officials as more friendly to consumers than
federal officials.
Federal regulators The Federal Reserve and the Treasury disagree over how financial conglomerates should be
structured, and thus who would regulate them. Also, federal banking regulators are wrangling with the SEC over who
should oversee securities operations in banks, with both camps arguing that they are best suited for the job.
Where Gramm Draws the Line
APRIL 24 What makes Phil Gramm fight the Community Reinvestment Act?
Gramm sounded eager a few months ago to prove he could get things done as the new chairman of the Senate
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 31 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
Gramm sounded eager a few months ago to prove he could get things done as the new chairman of the Senate
Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee. But Gramm, R-Texas, now appears willing to sink the biggest bill on
the committee's agenda in a clash over an antiredlining measure.
Banks, brokerages and insurance companies are pushing for financial services legislation (HR 10, Senate draft) that
would establish a clearer set of rules for the cross-industry consolidation that is already under way.
Yet Congress finds itself hung up — again — on the 1977 Community Reinvestment Act (PL 95-128), which
requires banks to document efforts to invest in all segments of the communities in which they collect deposits. Last
year the Senate failed to take a final vote on a House-passed overhaul measure in large part because of Gramm's
protests against the bill's reinvestment provisions. Gramm wants to loosen the requirements, especially on small
banks.
This year Gramm has said he is willing to deal on the issue, but he also has said that he can live without a financial
services overhaul if enactment requires too many compromises on key issues. Gramm has staked out positions on
the reinvestment act that would draw a presidential veto on the underlying bill and that so far have helped prevent
even a whiff of bipartisanship from emerging in the Senate. The banking industry, which is eager for financial
services legislation, has remained relatively quiet on the 1977 law. So have most of Gramm's GOP Senate
colleagues.
Observers say Gramm's passionate stand on the reinvestment issue is a logical component of his free-market
conservatism. Government-forced credit allocation is anathema to conservatives such as Gramm, said John
Heasley, general counsel and lobbyist for the Texas Bankers Association. American Bankers Association lobbyist
Edward L. Yingling agreed, and said relatively little pressure was coming from interest groups or constituents.
Nevertheless, Gramm has plenty of home-state motivation to push for changes. Texas is home to about 840 state
and nationally chartered banks, more than any other state in the nation and about 10 percent of the nation's total,
Heasley said. Under Gramm's bill, about 150 to 200 of the state's banks would qualify for exemption from
reinvestment requirements because they are rural banks with less than $100 million in assets.
Gramm has used the words “bribery” and “extortion” to describe how he believes some community housing groups
abuse the law. When it comes to examples, Gramm and his staff generally have held their fire, saying they want to
wait until the Banking Committee holds as-yet-unscheduled hearings this year.
But in committee hearings earlier this year, Gramm spoke of a case involving a small Southern bank company that
invested heavily in efforts to reach out to a growing Spanish-speaking population. For example, Gramm said, the
bank employed bilingual tellers and provided a free wiring service for bank customers to send money to Mexico.
Gramm said bank regulators told the bank “they were doing the right things, but doing it the wrong way,” and the
only way to get a good reinvestment rating was to give money directly to community groups.
Gramm said the hearings will provide evidence that the law needs to be modified. “I find that in debating community
groups, they don't take on these issues head on,” Gramm said. “It's basically that if you're willing to stop any abuse,
any one abuse, that you're against the CRA.”
Community groups have few warm feelings for Gramm. On April 11, the National People's Action coalition, in
Washington for its annual conference, sent 15 bus loads of members to Gramm's home to protest his efforts to
scale back the reinvestment act. Gramm called police, and the crowd broke up with no arrests, leaving Gramm's
lawn littered with fliers.
Financial Services Bills Compared
JULY 10 This chart compares the Senate-passed financial services overhaul bill (S 900) with the Housepassed
version (HR 10). The more bipartisan House bill passed, 343-86, on July 1. The Senate bill was approved, 54-44,
on May 6 with only one Democrat joining the majority.
The administration has threatened to veto the Senate bill over community reinvestment issues.
ISSUE S 900 (SENATE) HR 10 (HOUSE)
Operating
subsidiary vs.
holding
company
The bill would require banks to use a holding
company structure with Federal Reserve
oversight, as favored by Fed Chairman Alan
Greenspan. Exception: Banks with less than $1
billion in assets would be allowed to conduct
most activities through operating subsidiaries,
which are regulated by the Treasury.
The House version would give banks the option of
organizing financial services as operating subsidiaries, as
favored by the Treasury. However, banks with more than
$10 billion in assets would be required to establish holding
companies in order to engage in non-banking financial
activities, which would give the Federal Reserve oversight
of these larger institutions.
Thrifts The bill would prohibit new and existing thrifts
from affiliating with commercial entities. Existing
thrifts already affiliated with commercial firms
would not be affected.
The bill would allow existing thrifts to affiliate with
commercial firms only with the approval of the Office of
Thrift Supervision and the Federal Reserve. New thrifts
would be barred from affiliating with commercial
firms.Existing thrifts already affiliated with commercial firms
would not be affected.
Privacy No provision. Financial institutions would be required to let customers opt
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 32 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
out of information-sharing activities with unaffiliated third
parties.Financial institutions would be required to disclose
their privacy policies. The bill would also restrict disclosure
of medical information.
Community
Reinvestment
Act (CRA)
The bill would exempt rural banks with less than
$100 million in assets from compliance with the
CRA. It would require public disclosure of terms
of agreements used to settle disputes and make
it more difficult for community groups to
challenge banks' past ratings.
The bill would generally maintain current reinvestment
requirements. It would require banks to have a satisfactory
reinvestment rating for proposed new affiliations to win
approval, and would add new penalties for non-
compliance.
Insurance
regulation
The bill would provide broad authority for state
regulation of insurance activities in national
banks but would prohibit states from
discriminating against national banks as opposed
to state insurance providers.
Similar to Senate bill.
Securities
regulation
Banks would be allowed to conduct many
securities activities within the bank, thereby
limiting oversight by the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC).
The bill would place more restrictions on banks securities
activities and would create a stronger role for SEC
oversight of securities activities than would the Senate
version.
Pretext
calling
The bill would make it a federal crime to use false
pretenses to gather private information about an
individual from a bank.
Same as Senate bill.
Automated
teller
machine
(ATM) fees
The bill would require that ATMs provide notice
of surcharges before a transaction is completed.
Same as Senate bill.
Decades of Efforts To Change The Glass-Steagall Act
OCTOBER 23 In response to thousands of bank failures and a deepening Depression, Congress enacted the
Glass-Steagall Act in 1933 to separate the commercial and savings bank industries from investment banking.
The 1933 law (PL 73-66), named after Sen. Carter Glass, D-Va. (1920-46), and Rep. Henry Steagall, D-Ala. (1915-
43), prohibited banks from underwriting or selling securities.
After enactment, support grew for regulation of bank holding companies to prevent bank monopolies. President
Franklin D. Roosevelt requested legislation in 1938, and bills to regulate holding companies were introduced in
nearly every Congress until the Bank Holding Company Act (PL 84-511) became law in 1956.
The law defined holding companies as those with at least a 25 percent share of two or more banks. It limited their
activity to the ownership and management of banks and prevented them from controlling assets in non-banking
enterprises. Certain companies, however, were exempt, including one-bank holding companies, some long-term
investment trusts and certain registered investment companies. Those entities could own as many banks as they
wanted and could also engage in non-banking businesses.
1965-66
The House passed legislation in 1965 that sought to eliminate virtually all exemptions from the 1956 law, including
its exemption for one-bank holding companies. President Lyndon B. Johnson signed the bill (PL 89-485) in 1966.
But by then it included Senate-passed provisions to restore many exemptions, including the one for onebank holding
companies.
1969-70
President Richard M. Nixon promised legislation to extend the 1956 law to one-bank holding companies. The House
passed such a bill in 1969. The Senate cleared it in 1970, and Nixon signed it (PL 91-607).
1978
Amendments to the 1956 law to allow bank holding companies to engage in limited insurance activities were
included in a 1978 omnibus financial services bill. But the House failed to complete work on the holding company
provisions before the bill became law (PL 95-630).
1980
The House passed a bill to restrict certain bank holding companies from acting as insurance agents. Similar
legislation never reached the Senate floor.
1983
President Ronald Reagan proposed to permit banks to engage in securities, real estate and insurance activities. But
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 33 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
President Ronald Reagan proposed to permit banks to engage in securities, real estate and insurance activities. But
legislators had little incentive to act, as there was general agreement that a repeal of Glass-Steagall would
adversely affect constituents in every district.
1984
House legislation was introduced to close loopholes in the 1956 law, including requiring banks to divest themselves
of their non-banking activities within two years. It never saw floor action. The Senate passed legislation to allow
bank holding companies to form subsidiaries to underwrite mortgage-backed securities and municipal bonds.
1987
A law to bail out the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation (PL 100-86) also amended the 1956 law to
close loopholes on non-banking activities, through which some retailers and financial houses had opened limited
banking operations.
1988
The Senate passed a bill to repeal portions of the Glass-Steagall Act to allow banks to participate in securities
activities while restricting their insurance activities. Two House committees approved a similar bill but could not
compromise on jurisdictional issues. (1988 Almanac, p. 230)
1991
The House rejected a bill to repeal parts of Glass-Steagall and to allow banks to open branch offices nationwide.
The Senate passed a bill overhauling the deposit insurance system only after the Glass-Steagall language was
stripped on the floor. (1991 Almanac, p. 75)
1995
A bill to deregulate the financial services industry, including Glass-Steagall changes, failed to reach the House floor
after opposition from banks and others persuaded leaders to shelve it. (1995 Almanac, p. 2-78)
1996
The 1995 bill was redrafted several times, but banks opposed it because it included restrictions on selling insurance.
Bill sponsors lost hope after it became clear that House leaders would not allow floor action. (1996 Almanac, p. 2-51)
1997
House leaders were again unable to bring a bill to repeal the Glass-Steagall Act to the floor because of
disagreements between the banking and insurance industries. (1997 Almanac, p. 2-73)
1998
The House passed the bill by one vote. It sought to repeal the 1933 law and other laws separating the banking,
securities and insurance industries. The bill stalled in the Senate because of disagreements over community
reinvestment and operating subsidiaries. (1998 Almanac, p. 5-3)
Financial Services Accord
OCTOBER 23 The following are highlights of the conference report on the financial services overhaul bill (S 900 —
H Rept 106 -434):
Privacy The conference agreement generally would follow the House provisions. It calls for banks to develop written
privacy policies and disclose them conspicuously to customers, and to give consumers the right to opt out of
information-sharing with unaffiliated third parties. In one exception, the measure would not require banks to let
customers opt out of joint marketing agreements with other financial institutions. Small banks requested the exception,
arguing that without it they would be at a competitive disadvantage because large banks were more likely to have in-
house affiliates to participate in cross-marketing projects. Republicans thwarted Democratic-led attempts to pass
stronger privacy measures, including an amendment that would have allowed customers to opt out of information-
sharing with affiliates as well as third parties.
The bill would also make a crime of “pretext” calling, the practice of gathering personal information from a bank about a
customer by using false information or deceptive tactics. The provision contains exceptions for law enforcement
activities and for attempts to collect child support payments.
Community Reinvestment Act The Community Reinvestment Act (PL 95-128) is an anti-redlining law that
requires banks to document efforts to invest in all segments of their communities. The conference agreement would
require fewer reinvestment reviews by federal regulators for most banks with less than $250 million in assets unless they
sought to merge, establish a new branch or relocate. Banks wishing to expand the scope of their businesses into
insurance or securities activities would have to have satisfactory reinvestment ratings to do so.
The agreement also includes a “sunshine” requirement that is similar to a provision in the Senate bill.  It would require
banks and community groups to disclose deals in which grants or loans were offered by a bank to a community group in
exchange for the group's support of the bank's reinvestment activities. Critics of reinvestment requirements said the
confidential agreements allowed community groups to abuse the law by making deals with banks eager to avoid public
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 34 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
confidential agreements allowed community groups to abuse the law by making deals with banks eager to avoid public
opposition to their expansion plans.
Title insurance The agreement would allow federal bank subsidiaries to sell title insurance. The measure would also
override any state laws prohibiting such sales by national bank themselves if state banks were allowed to sell title
insurance.
Structure and regulatory oversight Negotiators adopted a compromise on the structure of new financial
conglomerates worked out by the Federal Reserve and the Treasury Department, which share jurisdiction in bank
regulation. The Fed had argued that financial conglomerates should be required to keep non-bank affiliates at arms'
length by organizing them as affiliates under a holding company. The White House insisted that banks be allowed to
organize non-banking financial activities as subsidiaries. Treasury now oversees banks and subsidiaries that are not
part of a holding company, and the Fed regulates holding companies. Under the deal, banks generally would be allowed
to operate most financial services, except insurance underwriting and real estate development, as subsidiaries.
However, the total assets of a bank's subsidiaries could not exceed $50 billion or 45 percent of the bank's assets,
whichever was less.
Regulation of insurance and securities The agreement, which hews more closely to the House bill,  would
require that insurance and securities activities be overseen by their respective state and federal regulators, even if the
activities were conducted by a bank affiliate or subsidiary. Exceptions would be made for some traditional bank
activities, such as trust management, which would continue to be overseen by bank regulators. The Senate bill would
have placed more securities functions under the review of bank regulators, rather than the Securities and Exchange
Commission.
Automated teller machine fees The agreement would require that automated teller machines give notice of
transaction fees and allow customers to cancel transactions before any fees were imposed.
Thrifts The agreement follows the Senate version, which would forbid new and existing thrifts from affiliating with
commercial firms. Opponents of affiliation argued that mixing banking and commerce places the financial industry at
risk, and that it could be anti-competitive if thrifts refused to grant loans to potential competitors of their commercial
affiliates. Banks also complained that existing thrifts have an unfair advantage because they are currently allowed to
affiliate with commercial firms, and banks are not.
Wholesale financial institutions The agreement would allow the creation of a new type of bank called a
wholesale financial institution, nicknamed a “woofie” because of the WFI acronym. These institutions would not be as
heavily regulated as regular banks, and their deposits would not be federally insured. They would require a minimum
deposit of $100,000 and would be geared toward the needs of institutional and large individual investors. These
institutions could not be affiliated with federally insured banks, and the reinvestment act would not apply to them.
Financial Services Overhaul
The following are provisions of the financial services overhaul bill (S 900 — PL 106 - 102) signed by President
Clinton on Nov. 12, 1999.
Laws repealed
The 1933 Glass-Steagall Act The act's prohibitions on affiliations between the banking and securities industries
are repealed.
The 1956 Bank Holding Company Act The act's prohibitions on affiliations between the banking and insurance
industries are repealed.
Structure and oversight
Shared bank jurisdiction The Federal Reserve and the Treasury Department will continue to share oversight of
national banks. The Fed will continue to regulate bank holding companies and will regulate new financial holding
companies created under the law. The Treasury Department will continue to be the primary regulator of national banks.
Functional regulation Each affiliate or subsidiary of a financial conglomerate will be regulated by its “functional”
regulator — banks by banking regulators, securities affiliates by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and
insurance companies by state insurance regulators.
Safeguards The bill authorizes federal banking regulators to restrict relationships and transactions among insured
banks and their affiliates or subsidiaries if needed to avoid conflicts of interest or to enhance the financial stability of
banks and the general banking system.
Subsidiary activities and oversight
Bank and bank subsidiary activities National banks will be allowed to engage in, directly or through an
operating subsidiary, activities that are “financial in nature or incidental to a financial activity.” The Treasury will
supervise bank activities, while the operations of individual bank subsidiaries will be supervised through functional
regulation.
Exceptions to allowable bank subsidiary activities Banks or bank subsidiaries cannot conduct the following
activities: insurance or annuity underwriting, insurance company portfolio investments, real estate development, real
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 35 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
activities: insurance or annuity underwriting, insurance company portfolio investments, real estate development, real
estate investment and merchant banking activities. Companies that want to engage in those activities will have to
establish financial holding companies and organize the activities as affiliates, rather than as subsidiaries. However,
subsidiaries could conduct merchant banking activities after five years if the Treasury and the Federal Reserve agree to
allow them.
Subsidiary requirements The parent national bank and all affiliated banks must be well-capitalized and well-
managed before financial activities can be conducted through a subsidiary. The parent bank also must obtain Treasury
Department approval before initiating any eligible activity through subsidiaries. The consolidated total assets of all
subsidiaries of any single bank will be limited to $50 billion, or 45 percent of the assets of the parent bank, whichever is
less.
Large bank limitations The largest 100 banks in the nation by total asset size can conduct securities underwriting
activities in subsidiaries only if the parent bank meets certain debt rating requirements.
Holding company activities and oversight
Other financial activities In addition to banking, insurance and securities activities, financial holding companies
will be allowed to engage in activities that are “financial in nature,” incidental to activities that are financial in nature, or
complementary to such activities. This represents a significant expansion of previous law, which limited bank affiliates to
activities “closely related to banking.” The bill specifies that investment advisory activities, merchant banking and
insurance company portfolio investments are financial in nature. It empowers the Federal Reserve Board — if the
Treasury Department concurs — to define and authorize other eligible activities.
Limits on Fed oversight The Federal Reserve will not be allowed to examine functionally regulated non-bank
affiliates unless it has reasonable cause to believe the affiliate is engaged in activities that pose a material risk to an
insured bank, nor can it impose any capital adequacy rules, guidelines or other requirements beyond those already
required by the affiliates' functional regulators. The bill limits the reach of the Fed's “source of strength” doctrine, which
states that affiliates of insured banks may be considered part of the bank's enterprise with responsibility for financially
supporting the institution. Under the new law, the SEC and state insurance regulators will be able to prevent the Fed
from compelling securities, investment advisers and insurance affiliates to provide funds to an undercapitalized insured
bank affiliate.
Fed enforcement of non-bank affiliates The Federal Reserve can take enforcement action against a non-
bank affiliate only if needed to prevent or redress a practice that poses a material risk to the financial soundness of an
affiliated bank or the U.S. or international payments systems, and only if it is not possible to guard against such risk
through requirements imposed directly on the bank. In overseeing non-bank affiliates, the Fed generally will have to rely
on reports from the affiliates, and on examinations conducted by other regulators.
Prohibited activities The measure does not allow banks to affiliate with commercial, non-financial entities, such as
retail or manufacturing businesses.
Exceptions to prohibited activities Securities and insurance firms that already own, or are affiliated with,
commercial non-financial companies can affiliate with banks under a financial holding company if they were engaged in
commercial activities as of Sept. 30, 1999, as long as the commercial activities made up 15 percent or less of the
company's gross revenue. Such commercial activities could not be expanded, and they would have to be terminated or
divested within 10 years of the bill's enactment. Also, firms that own or are affiliated with companies engaged in
commodities trading or investments can affiliate with banks under a holding company if they were engaged in such
commodity activities as of Sept. 30, 1997, and if such commodity activities made up 5 percent or less of the company's
total assets. The measure does not require the divestiture of these activities, but it prohibits crossmarketing of banking
and commodities products.
Community Reinvestment Act
Confirms existing law The agreement generally preserves existing requirements of the 1977 Community
Reinvestment Act (PL 95-128). The law is intended to spur loans in low-income areas by requiring banks to document
their efforts to make loans in all areas where they collect deposits. Banks seeking to merge or open new branches must
have reinvestment ratings of satisfactory or better.
Requirements expanded to cover new affiliations The bill requires that banks have a satisfactory or better
reinvestment rating before they can affiliate with securities and insurance firms. It prohibits holding companies that have
a bank with an unsatisfactory reinvestment rating from engaging in new financial services activities until  the bank
achieves a satisfactory rating.
“Sunshine” provision added The measure requires the public disclosure of any agreements made between
banks and community groups involving more than $10,000 in grants or $50,000 in loans when the agreement is made in
connection with the bank fulfilling its Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) requirements. This requirement applies only
to parties that have commented on, testified about, or otherwise contacted the bank about the CRA.
Disclosure of expenditures Groups receiving funds under a CRA agreement with a bank must submit a detailed,
itemized list reporting how the funds were used, including salaries, administrative expenses, travel, entertainment,
consulting fees paid, and any other categories required by the banking regulator. Community groups can submit their
annual reports directly to the bank, which is required to forward them to banking regulators.
Reduced regulatory reviews The bill reduces the frequency of CRA reviews for rural and small banks with less
than $250 million in assets that have good CRA records. CRA regulatory reviews will be limited to every five years for
such banks that have “ outstanding” CRA ratings and every four years for banks that have “ satisfactory” ratings. Banks
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 36 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
such banks that have “ outstanding” CRA ratings and every four years for banks that have “ satisfactory” ratings. Banks
will still be subject to CRA reviews whenever they propose to open a new branch or merge, and banking regulators can
conduct reviews more or less frequently if they have reasonable cause.
Studies required The Treasury Department, in consultation with federal banking agencies, is required to study the
extent to which services are being provided as intended by the CRA — including services in low- and moderate-income
neighborhoods and for people of moderate means — as a result of the bill's enactment. The measure also requires the
Federal Reserve to conduct a comprehensive study on the default rates, delinquency rates and profitability of loans
made by banks in complying with the CRA.
Privacy
Disclosure The bill requires financial institutions to clearly and conspicuously disclose their policies regarding the
sharing of customer information with other institutions. These disclosures must describe the type of customer
information collected, the institution's policies and practices for sharing information with both affiliated institutions and
non-affiliated third parties, and policies for protecting the confidentiality and security of confidential customer information.
Such disclosures will have to be made to every new customer, and to all existing customers at least once a year.
Opt-out requirement Banks must allow consumers to opt out of their information sharing arrangements with
unaffiliated third parties. The measure does not require companies to let consumers opt out of information-sharing with
affiliates or subsidiaries.
Opt-out exception for marketing agreements Banks are not required to let consumers opt out of
information-sharing with third parties made in association with a financial institution's joint marketing agreement,
provided the institution discloses the arrangement with its customers and the third party agrees to keep the customer
information confidential. The measure prohibits financial institutions from disclosing a customer's bank account or credit
card numbers — or means of accessing such accounts — to third parties for purposes of telemarketing, direct mail
marketing or electronic mail marketing.
Additional opt-out limitations Consumers cannot opt out of information sharing associated with the processing
of consumerinitiated transactions, maintaining consumer accounts, or complying with consumer reporting requirements,
legal requirements or law enforcement investigations.
Privacy rules The measure requires federal banking regulators, the Treasury Department, the SEC and the Federal
Trade Commission (FTC), in consultation with state insurance authorities, to establish standards to ensure the security
and confidentiality of customer financial records and information, and to protect against unauthorized access and use of
such information. Each agency must conduct its own rulemaking, although agencies must coordinate with one another
and, to the extent possible, make their regulations consistent.
Privacy study The bill requires the Treasury Department to conduct a study of information-sharing practices among
financial institutions and their affiliates. Among other criteria, the study must examine the purposes for which confidential
consumer information is shared, and the potential benefits of sharing for financial institutions and for customers; the
potential risks to consumer privacy by sharing; the adequacy of existing laws to protect privacy; and the adequacy of
security protections for shared information. The study must also explore the feasibility of approaches to privacy,
including opt-out and opt-in policies that allow customers to control whether their confidential information can be shared
with affiliates and third parties.
State privacy laws The bill's privacy provisions establish a floor, rather than a ceiling, for consumer privacy
protection by allowing states to enact more stringent privacy provisions than those established in federal law.
Privacy and Fraud
Pretext calling The bill makes it illegal to obtain, or attempt to obtain, confidential information about a customer from
a financial institution by fraudulent or deceptive means, or to request that another person obtain such information
knowing that it will be done in a fraudulent manner. The most frequently noted example of such a prohibited activity is
“pretext calling,” in which an information broker impersonates the individual whose account information is sought or
engages in other ruses designed to trick a financial institution into disclosing information. People found guilty of
violations will be subject to criminal fines and imprisonment up to five years – with penalties doubled for certain
aggravated cases.
Pretext calling exceptions Exceptions to this prohibition will be provided for certain law enforcement activities, for
financial institutions that are testing their internal security procedures, for investigations of allegations of improper
conduct by employees, for insurance companies and agents investigating insurance fraud or other misconduct, and for
state-licensed private investigators authorized by a court to help collect delinquent court-ordered child support
payments.
Automated teller machine fees
Disclosure The bill requires banks and other operators of automated teller machines (ATMs) to prominently disclose
whether the machine will impose a fee on users who are not customers of the bank or other ATM operators. This must
be done both through a sign on the ATM and a notice either on the ATM's screen or on a slip of paper dispensed by the
machine. These provisions essentially codify procedures currently being followed voluntarily by most ATM operators.
The disclosures must specify the amount of the surcharge, and the on-screen or dispensed-paper notice must provide
the consumer with a chance to refuse the fee and cancel the transaction.
Fee disclosure exception The measure exempts from the onscreen or dispensed-paper requirement, until  the end
of 2004, any machines not technically able to display such messages on-screen or through dispensed paper.
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 37 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
of 2004, any machines not technically able to display such messages on-screen or through dispensed paper.
Additional fee disclosure The bill requires ATM card issuers to notify consumers when cards are issued that
surcharges may be imposed by other parties when using an ATM operated by a party other than the card issuer.
Liability protection The measure protects ATM operators from liability for violating the bill's disclosure requirements
if the posted notice on the ATM has been removed, damaged or altered by other parties.
GAO study The bill requires the General Accounting Office (GAO) to study the feasibility, costs, benefits to consumers
and competitive impact of requiring ATM operators to disclose to customers ATM fees that are being charged by the
customer's bank.
Thrift holding companies
The bill prohibits new and existing savings and loans, also known as thrifts, from affiliating with commercial
activities. It allows existing thrift-commerce affiliations to continue, including pending affiliations in which an
application was filed on or before May 4, 1999.
SEC regulation
Banks as brokers and dealers The bill repeals the broad exemption for banks from regulation under federal
securities laws, thereby providing for functional regulation of bank securities activities by the SEC. The bill extends SEC
regulation of securities to the securities activities of banks by amending the definitions of “broker” and “dealer” under the
1934 Exchange Act to include banks. Subjecting banks to federal securities regulation will require banks either to
register as securities broker-dealers or to move their securities activities out of banks and into registered securities
affiliates or subsidiaries. However, the measure exempts specified types of bank securities activities, allowing banks to
continue those activities without registering as broker-dealers.
Exempted securities activities The bill exempts certain bank securities activities from SEC broker-dealer
regulation, including third-party brokerage arrangements in which a registered broker or dealer offers services on or off
bank premises, but away from bank deposit-taking activities. It also exempts traditional bank trust activities, provided
the bank receives no brokerage commissions and does not solicit brokerage business; transactions in commercial
paper, bankers acceptances, commercial bills, and municipal and other exempted securities; certain stock purchase
plans, such as those made in connection with 401(k) plans and dividend reinvestment plans, as long as the bank does
not solicit transactions or provide investment advice on those transactions; and sweep accounts, in which banks invest
customers' deposits in registered money market funds.
Exemption for low-volume securities activities Banks that perform fewer than 500 securities transactions
per year of any kind are exempt from SEC broker-dealer regulation.
Exemption for private placements Banks will be permitted to perform private placements with “qualified
investors” without SEC broker-dealer regulation. These are non-public securities sales made to certain large investors.
Individuals and corporations will be classified as qualified investors for all private placements — except for asset-backed
securities and loan participations — if they have at least $25 million in investments. The previous requirement was $10
million.
Mutual fund oversight The bill ends the exemption from the 1940 Investment Advisors Act for banks that sell
mutual funds or advise mutual fund companies, thereby authorizing SEC oversight of such bank activities. Banks that
advise mutual fund companies will be required to register with the SEC as investment advisers and will be subject to
SEC examination of their mutual fund activities. If a bank establishes a separately identifiable department within the
bank to act as the investment adviser, only that department will be required to register with the SEC.
Disclosure of mutual fund risk The measure requires banks that sell mutual funds to prominently disclose to
customers that such investments are not federally insured or otherwise guaranteed.
Investment trust requirements The measure requires the SEC to issue rules on the conditions under which a
bank or bank officer may serve as custodian of the assets of an affiliated management investment company or unit
investment trust. It places restrictions on loans and other transactions between a bank and an affiliated investment
company, and it limits the ability of bank officers to serve on the board of such affiliated companies.
Oversight of new products The measure empowers the SEC to determine if future “hybrid” products developed
by banks are securities subject to SEC regulation. Before initiating a rulemaking process, the SEC would have to seek
the concurrence of the Federal Reserve, and consider the history and purpose of the hybrid product and the likely
impact that regulating the product as a security would have on the banking industry. If the Federal Reserve opposes an
SEC rule declaring a hybrid to be a security, the measure provides for an expedited review in the U.S. Court of Appeals,
with deference given to neither agency.
Securities holding companies The bill allows securities holding companies to be voluntarily supervised by the
SEC. Before the bill was enacted, such holding companies — which besides a securities firm may include other financial
and non-financial affiliates (but no federally insured banks or thrifts) — were not subject to any overall regulation.
Allowing voluntary SEC oversight of the entire holding company is intended to enhance the ability of certain U.S.
investment bank holding companies to do business in foreign nations that require consolidated holding company
supervision.
Limitations on voluntary SEC oversight The voluntary SEC oversight will apply only to securities holding
companies that do not include an insured depository institution. All holding companies that include insured banks are
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 38 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
companies that do not include an insured depository institution. All holding companies that include insured banks are
automatically subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve.
Bank insurance activities
State regulation of insurance The bill reaffirms the 1945 Mc-Carron-Ferguson Act (PL 79-15), which provides
that insurance is to be regulated by the states, not the federal government. It provides that no person or entity may
underwrite or sell insurance in a state unless licensed by that state.
Insurance products defined The bill defines “insurance” to help delineate which products are to be regulated as
bank products and which are to be regulated by states as insurance. Insurance products are defined as anything
regulated by a state as insurance as of Jan. 1, 1999, including annuities. Future bank products will be classified as
insurance if they are based on certain insurance concepts and are regulated by the state as insurance. Products based
on core banking products —such as deposits, loans, trusts, derivatives and guarantees — will be treated as banking
products unless they are treated as insurance for tax purposes by the IRS.
Dispute resolution For federal bank and state insurance regulators who disagree over the status of a product, the
measure establishes a dispute resolution process under which either the banking or the insurance regulator may file a
review petition directly to the U.S. Court of Appeals, bypassing U.S. district courts. The appeals court will have to
examine the case's merits under both state and federal law, consider the nature and history of a product and its
regulation, and make a decision within 60 days. No deference will be given to the opinion of either the state or federal
regulator. Courts previously deferred to the opinion of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) in disputes
concerning bank products. Court decisions could be appealed to the Supreme Court.
Restrictions on bank insurance underwriting The bill generally prohibits national banks and their
subsidiaries from underwriting insurance, except for products that national banks were underwriting as of Jan. 1, 1999,
or those the OCC had authorized banks to underwrite as of that date. Generally, any insurance underwriting will have to
be conducted by insurance affiliates of banks under a financial holding company.
Title insurance restrictions The bill generally prohibits national banks or their subsidiaries from underwriting or
selling title insurance. However, they can sell title insurance if the state allows state banks to sell title insurance, but only
to the same extent and manner as allowed for state banks. In addition, existing title insurance activities by banks and
subsidiaries will be allowed to continue, although such activities (including both underwriting and sales) will have to be
moved out of the bank or subsidiary to an insurance affiliate, if one exists.
Consumer protections The bill requires federal banking regulators to develop consumer protection rules to govern
the sale of insurance by banks. Among those to be developed are anti-tying and anti-coercion rules that prohibit banks
from misleading consumers into believing that a loan or extension of credit is conditional upon the purchase of
insurance; disclosure rules requiring that consumers be told orally and in writing that the insurance product is not FDIC-
insured, that there may be an investment risk involved, and that the product may lose value (in the case of variable
annuities); guidelines on the extent to which insurance transactions should be conducted in a location away from where
bank deposits are made; consumer grievance procedures to address customers complaints; and a prohibition on
discriminating against victims of domestic violence in providing insurance.
Pre-emption of state insurance laws
Pre-emption of state affiliation laws The bill provides that insurance is to be regulated by the states, but it
specifically pre-empts state laws and rules that prevent or restrict affiliations between banks and insurance companies.
State laws that regulate the “ business side” of insurance (rather than sales, solicitation or cross-marketing activities) will
not be pre-empted, however, and state regulators will be able to prohibit affiliations for managerial or solvency reasons.
The bill authorizes state insurance regulators to gather certain information from parties proposing to acquire or merge
with an insurance company to ensure that capital requirements for the company will be met and maintained. The bill
pre-empts state laws that restrict the ability of banks and bank subsidiaries or affiliates to sell, solicit or cross-market
insurance by codifying the standard set by the Supreme Court in its 1996 Barnett Bank decision (Barnett Bank v.
Nelson). That decision held that no state laws or rules can “prevent or significantly interfere” with the rights of a national
bank to engage in insurance sales or solicitation activities under federal banking law.
Court guidelines for review of state insurance laws In the case of state laws enacted before Sept. 3,
1998, the court — in deciding whether the state law meets theBarnett standard — will defer to the opinion of the federal
bank regulator, as was previously the case in bank product disputes. For state laws enacted on or after Sept. 3, 1998,
however, the court will not defer to the opinion of either state or federal regulators, but will consider four non-
discrimination tests established by the measure (the agreement specifies four types of laws to be considered
discriminatory against bank insurance sales).
“Safe harbors” for state insurance regulation The bill specifies 13 kinds of state insurance sales laws that
are protected and will not be pre-empted, regardless of when they were enacted. These include state laws that prohibit
banks from requiring customers to obtain coverage from an affiliated insurance company if insurance is required when
taking out a loan; that require banks to provide written disclosures to customers that they may obtain insurance from
third parties; that prohibit banks from charging fees for handling third-party insurance policies; that prohibit advertising or
other materials that could lead customers to believe that bank loans or insurance policies are government-backed, and
that require written disclosures stating that such policies are not federally backed; that prohibit insurance brokerage fees
or commissions for non-licensed personnel; that prohibit the release of certain insurance information on customers; and
that require credit and insurance transactions to be completed through separate documents.
Uniform insurance licensing
New standards and reciprocity States have different licensing and other requirements, which makes it difficult
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 39 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
and expensive for insurance agencies to sell on a multistate basis. The bill calls for states to enact laws creating
uniform state licensing standards that will provide reciprocity for licensed insurers to operate in other states.
Creation of federal standards If a majority of states fail to enact uniform licensing standards and reciprocity laws
within three years, a private, nonprofit corporation called the National Association of Registered Agents and Brokers
(NARAB) will be created to develop uniform standards to be applied on a multistate basis, pre-empting state licensing
requirements. Insurance agents and brokers who join NARAB will be allowed to work in any state, with NARAB's
licensing requirements overriding state requirements. The rights of states to license insurance agents and brokers will
be preserved; however, those state requirements will apply only to state-licensed agents and brokers, and not to
NARAB members.
NARAB guidelines In developing its standards, NARAB will have to make its licensing requirements comparable to
the highest state licensing requirements, and its continuing education requirements will have to be comparable to, or
greater than, the requirements of a majority of states. The measure requires that NARAB be created under the direction
of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC), the association of state insurance regulatory bodies. If
the NAIC fails to implement NARAB, and a majority of states do not enact uniform licensing and reciprocity laws, the
measure requires that NARAB be established by the president.
Rental car insurance The bill establishes a presumption that a state insurance license is not needed for employees
of car rental companies who sell or market short-term insurance associated with a car rental or lease. This presumption
will expire after three years and will not apply to states that have already established rules on whether car rental
company employees are subject to state insurance licensing. This three-year presumption is intended to stem
uncertainty in the car rental industry and give states time to determine how car rental companies should be treated.
Federal Home Loan Bank changes
Thrift membership The Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) System provides low-cost loans to local lenders for use
in providing home mortgages. The measure makes membership in the system voluntary. Previously, federally chartered
thrifts were required to join the system, but state-chartered savings and loans were voluntary members.
Participation requirements eased Under the law, small banks and thrifts will no longer be required to have at
least 10 percent of their assets in mortgages or mortgage-backed securities in order to obtain FHLB advances.
Mission expanded The bill expands the mission of the home loan bank system by allowing small thrifts and banks
with less than $500 million in assets to obtain advances for use in funding small businesses and small farms. As
collateral for such FHLB advances, these small thrifts and banks will be allowed to pledge secured loans they previously
made for eligible activities.
Management changes The bill sets the terms for both elected and appointed FHLB bank directors at three years.
Previously, elected directors served two years and appointed directors served four.
‘Limited purpose’ banks
The bill lifts certain restrictions on cross-marketing and other activities for so-called limited purpose banks. These
federally insured limited-service banks are owned by major financial and commercial firms, and they either accept
demand deposits or make commercial loans, but not both. These institutions are also known as “non-bank” banks.
The bill allows limited-purpose banks to cross-market products of affiliates and expands the types of overdrafts such
banks may incur on behalf of an affiliate.
‘Redomestication’ of mutual insurers
The measure grants mutual insurance companies the authority to redomesticate (move) to another state and
reorganize into a mutual holding company or stock company. This redomestication authority applies only to mutual
insurers located in states that do not have laws providing reasonable terms and conditions for such reorganizations
within the state. Such moves will be subject to approval by insurance regulators in the new state. All licenses of the
insurer will be preserved, and all outstanding policies, contracts, and forms will remain in force.
Special thrift fund eliminated
The 1996 Deposit Insurance Act (PL 104-208) created a special reserve fund to augment the Savings Association
Insurance Fund. The bill eliminates it. The reserve fund was intended to back up the SAIF and further protect
taxpayers from thrift bailouts. It was established Jan. 1, 1999, using $1 billion in SAIF deposits that exceeded the
SAIF's designated reserve ratio of 1.25 percent of estimated insured deposits. Critics of the reserve fund contended
that it would be better to make these funds available to the regular SAIF account.
Microenterprise technical assistance
New grant program The bill establishes a new grant program to fund local nonprofit microenterprise development
organizations and programs that help low-income and disadvantaged entrepreneurs. Grants could be provided to
eligible organizations to provide training and technical assistance to entrepreneurs interested in starting or expanding
their own businesses, to enhance the capacity of other organizations to serve low-income and disadvantaged
entrepreneurs, and to support research and development of better training and technical assistance programs. Local
organizations must match $1 for every $2 in federal assistance provided, and at least 50 percent of federal grant
funding must be used to benefit people with extremely low incomes, defined as families living at 150 percent of the
poverty line or below.
7/9/09 3:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 40 of 40http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal99-0000201143&type=hitlist&num=3
Grant funding authorized The measure authorizes $15 million a year through fiscal 2003 for the program, which
would be administered by the Small Business Administration.
Miscellaneous provisions
Bank municipal bond activities The bill authorizes national banks to underwrite, purchase and deal in municipal
bonds.
Plain language The bill requires federal banking agencies to use plain language in all rulemaking proposals
published in the Federal Register after Jan. 1, 2000.
Interest rate cap exemption The measure allows local banks in states in which interest rates are capped to
charge higher rates equal to those charged by an interstate bank that branches into the state.
Name rights Existing thrifts that convert to national or state banks will be permitted to keep the word “federal” in their
names.
Bank board changes The bill amends utility law to permit officers and directors of public utilities to serve as officers
or directors of banks, trust companies or securities firms.
Reserve bank audits The bill requires the Federal Reserve Board to contract for independent annual audits of the
financial statements of each Federal Reserve Bank, as well as of the board itself.
Foreign bank powers expanded The bill allows a federal or state agency of a foreign bank to upgrade to a
branch with the approval of the appropriate chartering authority and the Federal Reserve Board.
Grand jury access for state banks The bill authorizes U.S. attorneys to seek court orders to provide state
banking regulatory agencies with access to certain grand jury material, thereby giving state agencies parity with federal
bank regulatory agencies.
Additional studies
Federal Reserve. The bill requires that the GAO study the conflict of interest faced by the Federal Reserve between its
role as a primary regulator of the banking industry and its role as a vendor of services to the banking and financial
services industry.
Treasury Department. The bill requires the Treasury Department to study the extent to which credit is provided to small
businesses and farms as a result of this legislation.
“S” corporations. The measure requires the GAO to study the implications of revising rules concerning “S” corporations
to allow greater access by community banks to S corporation treatment. An S corporation receives tax treatment similar
to a partnership.
Document Citation
"Major Overhaul Enacted Of Rules Governing the Financial Services Industry." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online
Edition, cqal99-0000201143. Originally published in CQ Almanac 1999 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 2000).
http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal99-0000201143 (accessed July 9, 2009).
Document ID: cqal99-0000201143
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal99-0000201143
© 2000, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
