2/8/10 2:20 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 11file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL101…nd%20Urban%20Development%20Reform%20Act%20of%201989.webarchive
Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Reform Bill Cleared by Congress
An article from CQ Almanac 1989
Document Outline
Criminal Investigations
Final Provisions
Kemp's Proposal
House Committee Action
House Action
Final Action
Features
Responding to months of revelations about political influence-peddling, fraud and mismanagement at the Department of Housing
and Urban Development (HUD) during the Reagan administration, Congress Nov. 22 cleared legislation designed to clean up the
mess.
Passage of the bill (HR 1 — PL 101 - 235) was a big victory for new HUD Secretary Jack F. Kemp. He won approval for most
of his plan to reform the scandal-ridden department he had inherited from Samuel R. Pierce Jr., who served as HUD secretary
from 1981–89.
The legislation subjected HUD's management to a great deal more scrutiny, limited its discretion, threatened violators with big
penalties and curtailed private firms’ ability to make huge profits from HUD.
Congress was on the brink of adjournment when it sent HR 1 to the White House after stitching together last-minute
compromises. Final action came at 3:15 a.m., when the House by voice vote approved a compromise version of the measure that
the Senate had approved, also by voice vote, just hours earlier. The president signed the bill Dec. 15.
Impetus for action had come from a series of hearings conducted throughout the year by several congressional panels, most
notably the House Government Operations Subcommittee on Employment and Housing.
That subcommittee, headed by Rep. Tom Lantos, D-Calif., heard testimony from 39 witnesses at 18 hearings. It began its
investigation after the HUD inspector general in April disclosed widespread political favoritism and influence-peddling in the
Section 8 Moderate Rehabilitation (mod-rehab) program. But its probe eventually reached beyond one program.
Although the House investigations seemed to be winding down late in the year after Pierce and three top aides invoked the Fifth
Amendment and refused to testify, some senators appeared eager to keep the scandal alive.
Bob Graham, D-Fla., chairman of the Senate Banking Committee's HUD Investigation Subcommittee, announced Nov. 22 the
hiring of trial lawyer Talbot “Sandy” D'Alemberte, president-elect of the American Bar Association, to lead its probe. D'Alemberte's
career included stints as a member of the Florida House, chairman of the Florida Commission on Ethics and dean of the Florida
State University Law School.
Criminal Investigations
The Justice Department launched numerous criminal investigations into wrongdoing at HUD. One of those resulted in the
indictment Nov. 21 of escrow agent Marilyn L. Harrell of Maryland. Nicknamed “Robin HUD,” she claimed that HUD's ineptitude
allowed her to divert more than $5 million of its money to charity. She was charged with embezzlement, and prosecutors said she
kept much of the money.
On Nov. 2, Democrats on the House Judiciary Committee formally asked Attorney General Dick Thornburgh to seek appointment
of a special prosecutor to investigate Pierce's conduct. Operating under provisions of the Independent Counsel Act (PL 100-191),
Thornburgh first initiated a preliminary inquiry and then, on Feb. 1, 1990, announced that he would seek appointment of an
independent counsel. (Pierce, p. 636)
Meanwhile, other officials saw their careers derailed by fallout from the HUD investigation. Among them were R. Hunter Cushing,
a former HUD official who resigned from his Commerce Department post in the Bush administration after declining to testify, and
Frederick Bush (no relation of the president), a Republican whose nomination to be ambassador to Luxembourg was doomed
after revelations that he had received $600,000 for HUD-related consulting work.
2/8/10 2:20 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 11file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL101…nd%20Urban%20Development%20Reform%20Act%20of%201989.webarchive
Final Provisions
As cleared by Congress and signed into law, HR 1 contained the following major provisions:
Spending Decisions
Required most money for housing programs to be distributed to regions of the country on the basis of a needs-based “fair share”
formula and then to communities and projects through open competition.
Required public announcement of all federal, state and local funding decisions. Required HUD, using the Federal Register, to notify
potential applicants whenever HUD funds became available and to make public its selection criteria. Prohibited awards when no written
application had been made.
Required that HUD funding decisions by federal, local and state governments be documented and that such information be available
to the public. Allowed emergency waivers.
Prohibited advance disclosure of information on funding decisions, with civil fines of up to $10,000 per violation and criminal penalties.
Required certain applicants to disclose names of all parties with financial interests in the project in question, with civil fines of up to
$10,000 for each violation. Allowed the secretary to rescind funding decisions when violations occurred and imposed other sanctions.
Discretionary Funds
Greatly restricted the secretary's discretion in allocating money from two funds identified as ripe for political abuse.
Replaced the 15 percent “headquarters reserve” of housing money, which could be used for broadly defined purposes, with a narrowly
focused fund limited to 5 percent of housing funds. Allowable uses: disasters, desegregation, litigation settlements and other
emergencies.
Replaced the broad “secretary's discretionary fund” for community development grants with narrowly focused “special purpose grants.”
Allowable uses: grants for territories, trusts and historically black colleges; “technical assistance grants” to states, local governments,
Indian tribes and community planning organizations needing money to plan for federal projects; and supplemental grants to correct
community development block grant (CDBG) formula errors. Eliminated “special projects” grants, but exempted those referred to in the
House-Senate conference report (H Rept 101-297) on HUD's fiscal 1990 spending law (PL 101-144).
Also established a separate CDBG program for Indian tribes and limited spending on it to 1 percent of CDBG's total appropriation.
Regulation Waivers
Prohibited anyone but high-ranking HUD officials from granting regulation waivers. Required approvals to be in writing, justified and
made public in the Federal Register.
Civil Penalties
Gave HUD the power to impose civil fines — up to $5,000 per violation and $1 million per violator in some cases — on private-sector
participants in HUD mortgage programs for a wide range of abuses. Established procedures for imposing fines and allowing court
appeals. Allowed fines and other penalties against local governments or individuals who abused HUD urban-homesteading programs.
Provided fines of up to $1 million when loan brokers or any other interested party “knowingly” gave false information in applying for
HUD-insured property-improvement loans. HUD said some dealers and brokers, in a self-interested desire to make sales, abused the
program by encouraging borrowers to falsify applications and to use money for ineligible purposes, such as swimming pools. Directed
fines to HUD programs.
Consultants
Required lobbyists, consultants and lawyers attempting to influence HUD decisions to register if they made more than $10,000 in a
single year. Required applicants for HUD money and their lobbyists to disclose fees and other expenditures paid and received.
Required lobbyists to disclose previous federal employment. Allowed violators to be fined up to $10,000, or more if they were paid
more than that for services related to the violation. Barred violators from doing HUD consulting work for three years and provided
criminal penalties for those who violated the prohibition. Prohibited, in almost all cases, lobbying fees based or contingent on the
amount of subsidy approved by HUD.
Other Subsidies
Limited HUD assistance to that needed to provide affordable housing after taking into account all public subsidies to the project from
all sources. Required certain applicants to disclose all such subsidies.
Evaluation and Monitoring
2/8/10 2:20 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 11file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL101…nd%20Urban%20Development%20Reform%20Act%20of%201989.webarchive
Established a chief financial officer for HUD and a comptroller for the Federal Housing Administration (FHA), HUD's mortgage-
insurance agency. Authorized $25 million in fiscal 1991 for evaluation and monitoring of HUD programs. Required annual financial
statements and independent audits of FHA. Required HUD to devise a strategy within one year for making sure its information systems
were adequate. Allowed HUD to contract with private companies to help manage the FHA.
Coinsurance
Required HUD to review the financial strength of coinsurance lenders twice a year and to adjust accordingly the standards they had to
meet to assure the long-term fiscal stability of the FHA. Required a report to Congress on the program.
Other FHA Provisions
Barred use of FHA insurance for most investor-owned, single-family homes. Required credit checks of anyone who wanted to buy a
property covered by FHA mortgage insurance. Repealed the Title X program, which provided mortgage insurance to buy and develop
land for new communities.
Required HUD to notify other government agencies that insured mortgages when it suspended FHA mortgagees from HUD programs.
Required HUD to review its system for allowing private lenders to approve FHA insurance applications and to recommend
improvements to reduce fraud and defaults. Required HUD to set appraisal standards for properties with FHA mortgages.
Required mortgagees to maintain foreclosed FHA properties.
Required HUD and the Department of Agriculture to study the feasibility of making government-owned foreclosed homes available to
low-income victims of the Oct. 17 California earthquake and September's Hurricane Hugo and to report the results to Congress within
90 days of enactment.
Established a new FHA Advisory Board, with nine HUD-appointed members and six congressionally appointed members.
Established in law and increased the power of the existing HUD-controlled Mortgage Review Board. Gave the board the power to
reprimand, suspend and terminate mortgagees’ ability to do business with the FHA but gave alleged abusers the right to a hearing.
Allowed the secretary to issue temporary cease-and-desist orders to alleged abusers before the board acts. Allowed appeals of such
orders in court. Allowed HUD to go to court to request that such orders be enforced with injunctions.
Expedited Rulemaking
Sped congressional oversight of HUD's rules during the drafting stage by giving Congress up to 30 calendar days to review rules
instead of 30 legislative days, which were often interrupted when Congress recessed.
Rainier View Case
Attempted to limit costs stemming from a court challenge to HUD's method for calculating rent-subsidy increases to owners of assisted
projects. For several years, HUD used a standard formula to figure rent increases. But HUD reduced or wiped out the increases when
comparisons with rents paid for nearby unsubsidized units showed that the formula would have had HUD paying much more than the
market rate. The way HUD used such so-called “comparability studies” was successfully challenged in the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals in a Seattle case. In that case, Rainier View Associates v. United States, HUD was ordered to use only the standard formula,
sharply increasing government-paid rent subsidies to the plaintiffs. HUD argued that the decision would cost as much as $1 billion in
retroactive payments if applied nationwide.
HR 1 provided retroactive payments to project owners whose rent increases were wiped out or reduced by HUD's comparability
studies. The formula for establishing the payments limited them significantly, however, resulting in total payments of less than
$250 million, HUD estimated. Payments were to be made over a three-year period and subject to amounts appropriated in
spending bills.
HR 1 did not affect the judgment awarded plaintiffs in the Rainier case. But it called for future rent increases to be calculated by
formula and limited by comparability studies — implemented in a way Congress believed would withstand legal challenges.
Foreclosed Properties
Nullified state laws allowing former owners of foreclosed properties to reclaim title by making up overdue mortgage payments when the
property was vacant or abandoned and secured with one of HUD's “Section 312” rehabilitation loans. In effect, allowed HUD to
dispose of such properties more quickly.
Refinancing High-Interest Loans
Established an incentive program to encourage homeowners to refinance certain HUD-subsidized loans with high interest rates to cut
the government's costs.
Moderate-Rehabilitation Program
2/8/10 2:20 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 11file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL101…nd%20Urban%20Development%20Reform%20Act%20of%201989.webarchive
Required that projects fixed up under the mod-rehab program involve expenditures of at least $3,000 a unit and allowed subsidies for
no more than 100 units per project.
Farmers Home Administration
Applied to the Department of Agriculture's Farmers Home Administration (FmHA), which administered rural housing programs, some of
the same reforms imposed on HUD:
Required the agriculture secretary to notify potential applicants whenever housing funds became available, to make public his selection
criteria and to document his decisions.
Prohibited awards when no written application had been made. Allowed waivers in emergencies.
Required certain applicants to disclose the names of all parties with financial interests in the project in question and other sources of
public subsidy. Prohibited payments to lobbyists and consultants based or contingent on amount of subsidy received.
Required lobbyists and consultants to register. For violations, allowed the secretary to fine violators up to $1 million, rescind subsidies
and impose other sanctions. Limited the subsidy to that needed to make housing affordable after taking into account all public
assistance.
Prepayment Moratorium
Extended until  Sept. 30, 1990, the virtual moratorium Congress imposed on owners of low-rent projects seeking to convert their
properties to upscale apartments or condos by prepaying their government-subsidized mortgages. The moratorium was due to expire
Feb. 5, 1990. Enhanced somewhat the rent-subsidy incentives in existing law to entice owners to voluntarily continue providing low-
rent units.
Prohibited prepayment of future subsidized rural-housing loans insured or made under programs run by the FmHA. In return, allowed
owners of such projects to take out government-guaranteed “equity” loans on their properties 20 years after the original loan was
secured.
Reauthorizations and Extensions
Extended through fiscal 1991 the Flexible Subsidy Program, which provided money to financially troubled, subsidized housing projects.
Added two years to the three-year limit on a provision that allowed public housing agencies to charge some residents less than 30
percent of their income for rent.
This change was requested by officials attempting to retain a mixture of income levels in their projects by allowing some better-off
families to pay a smaller cut of their salaries.
Other Housing Provisions
Allowed non-profit owners of certain projects developed with Housing Development Grants to sell units to lower-income individuals
and families.
Allowed HUD, when providing rehabilitation loans to federally assisted housing projects, to assume that rent subsidies would be
extended for the life of the loan.
Required HUD to issue a study on the physical renovation needs of all federally subsidized projects within one year.
Required HUD to set a three-month timetable for implementing a demonstration program enacted in 1988 allowing state agencies to
take over and manage foreclosed HUD-controlled properties.
Established a National Commission on Severely Distressed Public Housing to identify such distressed projects, assess strategies to
improve them and develop a national plan to eliminate problems by the year 2000. The commission would have 18 members, with
HUD appointing six members and leaders of various congressional subcommittees appointing the rest. Authorized $3 million for the
commission in fiscal 1991–92.
Established a 12-member National Commission on American Indian and Alaska Native Housing to study issues related to their
housing needs. Three members of the commission would be appointed by HUD; leaders of various congressional panels would
appoint the rest. Authorized $1 million for the commission in 1991–92. Both commissions would cease to exist 18 months after their
members were appointed.
Kemp's Proposal
The Bush administration's plan to reform HUD won general applause on Capitol Hill, even though members questioned some of
the specifics.
Responding to what he called a “swamp” of fraud, political favoritism, influence peddling and other abuses inherited from the
2/8/10 2:20 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 11file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL101…nd%20Urban%20Development%20Reform%20Act%20of%201989.webarchive
Responding to what he called a “swamp” of fraud, political favoritism, influence peddling and other abuses inherited from the
Reagan administration, Kemp unveiled the plan Oct. 3.
In general, Kemp's proposals opened HUD and its profit-making beneficiaries to much greater scrutiny, curtailed the ability of
outsiders to influence decisions, imposed new internal monitoring requirements on much of the agency's multibillion-dollar budget,
limited HUD-related profits for developers and investors, and increased the agency's power to find abuse and punish perpetrators.
Kemp said neither he nor President Bush would “tolerate those systemic flaws at HUD which have allowed programs to be
abused for political purposes or for personal gain at the expense of those people who are in need.”
Kemp thanked Congress for aggressively investigating the scandal and called on members “to consider these proposals as
immediately as possible.”
House and Senate members quickly embraced the thrust of Kemp's plan. Senate Majority Whip Alan Cranston, D-Calif., chairman
of the Banking Committee's Housing Subcommittee, called it “right on target.” House Banking Chairman Henry B. Gonzalez, D-
Texas, who also headed the Housing Subcommittee, said the proposals would be given “prompt attention.”
Some of the proposals had strong support, and a few already were moving toward congressional approval.
For example, Kemp proposed requiring lobbyists and consultants to register and disclose fees, a move that Congress was being
urged to impose governmentwide by Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee. (Lobbying
reforms, p. 736)
Kemp also wanted to prevent developers from “double dipping” into subsidy programs by layering lucrative low-income housing
tax credits on top of HUD subsidies. More limited provisions to that end were included in both budget-reconciliation legislation
(HR 3299) and in the HUD spending bill (HR 2916). (HUD bill, p. 715)
Some proposals similar to Kemp's also were in a reform-and-reauthorization package unveiled Oct. 6 by Cranston and a task
force of Democrats. It built on a bill (S 565) to revamp and expand HUD that had been in the works since 1987. (Housing
reauthorization, p. 653)
Possible Problem Areas
Administration aides and congressional staffers said the following proposals could face trouble:
CDBG Targeting. Kemp wanted to target more tightly to anti-poverty efforts funds for the popular, $3 billion-a-year Community
Development Block Grant (CDBG) program. According to HUD, 40 percent of CDBG grants to states could be used for activities that
did not directly benefit poor people — such as downtown spruce-up projects. Kemp sought to cut the percentage to 25 percent, and to
require more affluent communities to use 100 percent of the funds to help poor people.
The proposal faced opposition from local governments. “The strength of the CDBG program is in its flexibility,” said a statement
from the National Association of Counties.
Discretionary Funds. A related proposal sought to eliminate almost all of HUD's two main “discretionary” programs. Kemp called
them “slush funds” for political purposes. The funds were supposed to be used to address emergencies or special cases by allowing
HUD to ignore merit and competition requirements.
But that was not the case in the Reagan era. The main focus of the HUD scandal, Section 8 Moderate Rehabilitation, was made
discretionary during the Reagan years. That opened the door to widespread political favoritism.
Kemp suspended and reformed the “mod-rehab” program. But he wanted to scrap two remaining discretionary funds — one for
CDBG-type efforts, the other for housing projects — while leaving a little money to deal with disasters and special needs.
The CDBG discretionary fund was a favorite congressional target for earmarks — constituent-pleasers tucked into spending bills
directing agencies to fund certain projects. In reports accompanying the fiscal 1990 HUD spending bill (HR 2916), the two
chambers earmarked a total of about $20 million for more than 25 projects in the program, including some that appeared to have
little to do with helping poor people. (Earmarks, p. 720)
Killing the program wouldn't stop members from imposing projects on HUD, but it would make doing so politically harder.
Relaxing FHA Law. Kemp also wanted Congress to give him more flexibility in deciding which defaulted projects should receive rent
subsidies. A law enacted in 1988 required HUD to give 15-year subsidies to defaulted multifamily projects insured by the Federal
Housing Administration (FHA). Kemp wanted the law relaxed, but many liberals in Congress fought hard for the provision as a way to
preserve the supply of housing.
Expediting HUD Rulemaking. Kemp wanted Congress to relax its oversight of HUD's rulemaking procedures. The power to make
rules to implement laws rested with the administration, but Congress historically had imposed restrictions to make sure its intent was
not disregarded in the process.
Other Reforms
Other proposals appeared to be heading toward smoother sailing.
These required that waivers of rules be approved by assistant secretaries and made public; required that funding decisions be
2/8/10 2:20 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 11file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL101…nd%20Urban%20Development%20Reform%20Act%20of%201989.webarchive
These required that waivers of rules be approved by assistant secretaries and made public; required that funding decisions be
made public; increased the subpoena power of HUD's inspector general, a proposal that was reportedly opposed by the
Department of Justice; created a “chief financial officer” and a comptroller to watch over HUD's financial affairs more closely;
increased funding for monitoring and auditing activities; and imposed stricter rules for HUD's troubled “coinsurance” program,
under which private lenders and the FHA shared risk.
Violators of HUD rules would face fines imposed by the secretary. Kemp wanted FHA to stop insuring vacation homes and
homes owned by investors.
The moderate-rehabilitation program appeared to be heading for extinction under Kemp's proposal. In the package given to
reporters, the “reform” section for this program referred only to efforts to fix up run-down housing — the main aim of the mod-
rehab program — using other HUD programs.
The explanation noted that Congress refused to appropriate new money for the program in fiscal 1990, but made the action
sound more permanent than members intended. “Funding … has been proposed for termination by Congress,” it said. Members
said they intended only a one-year delay in new funding.
House Committee Action
Democrats in Congress initially tried to tie the Bush administration's plan for reforming HUD to big bills aimed at expanding HUD
programs and creating costly new ones.
Kemp opposed such a plan. On Oct. 12, he told the House Banking Subcommittee on Housing that the reform package was
“urgent.” He added, “Once that is done, we can go beyond reform and focus on the substance of housing issues.”
Kemp's outspoken under secretary, Alfred A. DelliBovi, was more direct: “We have inherited a can of worms, and it is absolutely
necessary that we stop those worms from eating the fruit of the HUD program,” he said. “We believe reform needs to be passed
as soon as possible so that we can … deliver the programs that we now have authorized and under way. It would be a tragedy if
our effort to clean up HUD is derailed while we wait for the legislative process, which is not always the fastest process.”
Rep. Bruce F. Vento, D-Minn., said, “I think we have to know what the programs are before we can decide what type of reforms or
what type of safeguards we need,”
Rep. Charles E. Schumer, D-N.Y., successfully pressed HUD officials to say that much of the reform package could be handled
administratively, including some provisions HUD had said would require legislation.
“Saying that Congress has to do them [immediately], and we shouldn't do anything else, doesn't really ring true,” he said,
“because you can do them, and we can statutorily adopt them, modify them some, when the new session of Congress convenes.”
Cranston's housing aide said the reform package likely would be used to win support for a HUD expansion bill in the more
fiscally conservative Senate. Subcommittee staff director W. Donald Campbell said, “We've got one bite at the apple here…. If
you take away the engine of reform, the pressure will dramatically decrease.”
People or Programs at Fault?
Some Democrats suspected a few of Kemp's “reform” proposals were actually conservative policy changes that had little to do
with curbing the political favoritism, influence peddling, fraud and mismanagement.
Kemp repeatedly talked about what he called “systemic flaws” — meaning the structure of HUD's programs contributed to the
abuses. Gonzalez insisted “people problems” during the Reagan years were to blame.
“These programs work when people of good will are there to administer them,” Gonzalez told Kemp.
Kemp avoided a direct confrontation on the issue, but Republican Toby Roth, R-Wis., jumped in: “The programs are the problem,”
he said. “To say, ‘Hey, these programs aren't the problem’ is to say Congress isn't a problem, and that's a bunch of baloney.”
Gonzalez: “We're seeing things in very diametrically opposed ways.”
Kemp was conciliatory: “I didn't say it was just systemic…. There's plenty of blame to go around.”
About-Face by Democrats
On Nov. 9, House Democrats abandoned their efforts to hold the reform package hostage to a broader housing bill. The stark
about-face came after a frenzy of compromise and conciliation by Democrats and Republicans on the liberal-leaning Banking
Subcommittee on Housing.
A week earlier, panel Democrats were insisting that reform should move, in the words of Schumer, “arm in arm” with a major
reauthorization package, lest the housing expansion be left behind.
Instead, after three days of talking and one day of actual markup over two weeks, the subcommittee by voice vote stripped from
the 234-page bill all but its first section, the reform portion. “The alternative is for Congress to be accused of having uncovered a
scandal and not passing legislation to address it,” said Rep. Barney Frank, D-Mass.
Ironically, the move came after the hostage strategy showed signs of working. Senate Democrats were buoyed by what they saw
2/8/10 2:20 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 11file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL101…nd%20Urban%20Development%20Reform%20Act%20of%201989.webarchive
Ironically, the move came after the hostage strategy showed signs of working. Senate Democrats were buoyed by what they saw
as a big concession by the administration — President Bush's announcement Nov. 10 of a $4.2 billion, three-year set of housing
initiatives.
The administration was practically forced to act by the Democrats’ bicameral insistence on pushing big housing bills toward both
floors. After learning Nov. 6 of Bush's planned announcement, the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee
postponed its scheduled Nov. 8 markup until Nov. 16 so HUD's initiatives could be considered and possibly worked into its bill (S
566).
Republican senators had urged the administration to act quickly so they would have something to advocate at the upcoming
Banking Committee markup. But key Republicans on Nov. 8 signaled support for moving reform separately. Signing a letter to
their Democratic colleagues on the Banking Committee were all of the panel's Republicans, including Alfonse M. D'Amato, R-N.Y.,
a key ally of Housing Subcommittee Chairman Alan Cranston's two-year-plus effort to expand federal housing programs.
But Cranston said any such move would be a disastrous blow to his effort because the more conservative Senate would require
the locomotive of reform to pull the rest of any big housing bill.
“I believe such a move should be strongly resisted,” he told Kemp in a letter Nov. 7. “Since legislative pressures in the Senate
will permit passage of only one major housing bill this Congress, that legislation must include both reform measures and needed
housing initiatives.”
House Democrats, more confident of their majority power, decided to reject such fears. Contradicting what he had said a week
earlier, Schumer said Nov. 9 that “a housing bill will be able to pass both chambers and become law on its own,” even though
he'd “like to have the engine of reform” to help it.
Gonzalez had hinted all along that he might be willing to let reform go separately, but he repeatedly insisted that members
continue working on the big bill.
Then, after the subcommittee finished work on the measure's reform section, Gonzalez accepted, with minor changes, an
amendment by Steve Bartlett, R-Texas, to kill the rest of the bill.
Frank and Chalmers P. Wylie of Ohio, the ranking Republican on House Banking, urged Gonzalez to skip full committee action
on the reform bill and bring it to the floor under suspension of the rules, a procedure barring amendments and requiring a two-
thirds majority. “I accept that recommendation, and the chair will say it's headed that way,” Gonzalez said.
Rep. Frank's Role
Frank's central role in persuading the Democrats to accede to the Republicans was noteworthy. His ethics problems involving
revelations about a long-term relationship with a call boy had prompted him to keep an uncharacteristically low profile earlier in
the year. But Frank had been a force on housing for years, and he again jumped into the fray this time around, stinging
Republicans with sharp partisan sarcasm in public and cutting deals with them in private. (Frank ethics problems, p. 43)
His influence seemed as strong as ever. Although Frank began working the issue during the Democrats’ closed-door caucus
Nov. 8, some key players emphatically rejected any suggestion that the Democrats might abandon their strategy well into Nov. 9.
“We're not going to do that,” said Vento, just hours before they did. Freshman Peter Hoagland, D-Neb., told a reporter: “I would be
surprised if that happened. My guess is that the Democratic majority will rally and insist that some substantial housing
authorization accompany” the reform package. Then Frank joined the conversation and explained why he advocated moving
reform alone. Said Hoagland: “Scratch everything I just said.”
Rep. Thomas R. Carper, D-Del., said in an interview, “I will fight it tooth and nail,” but as the deal was going down, all he could
muster was, “I am disappointed in what I think we're about to do.”
Conversion Moratorium
Bartlett and the Republicans remained at the mercy of the Democrats even as the reform bill was approved.
Tagged onto the measure was an extension of a two-year-old virtual moratorium Congress imposed on any efforts by owners of
subsidized low-rent projects to convert their holdings to upscale apartments or condos. Bartlett considered the provision patently
unfair to owners and complained that there was no significant action by Congress on a permanent solution.
But Democrats, with Kemp's support, insisted on extending the provision, due to expire in February, until Sept. 30, 1990, to buy
more time to find a long-term solution. “I don't like it,” Bartlett grumbled, “but I guess I have to like it.”
Frank tried to comfort him, saying both parties needed bargaining chips to keep the big housing bill moving forward: “I think it's
important to have a few hostages on each side.”
The Democrats also tagged on simple reauthorizations of several expired housing programs.
The Key Provisions
Like the reform section of Sen. Cranston's bill, the House bill included most of what Kemp asked for — with some refinements —
plus a slew of added provisions crafted by several members, including Schumer, who oversaw the section's drafting, and Marge
Roukema, N.J., the subcommittee's top Republican. Most of the compromises were worked out behind the scenes by staffers;
others were agreed to by voice votes.
2/8/10 2:20 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 11file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL101…nd%20Urban%20Development%20Reform%20Act%20of%201989.webarchive
Only one amendment was contested to the point of a vote, and that actually had little to do with reform: It was a bid by Rep.
Carroll Hubbard Jr., D-Ky., to allow rural areas to get more HUD money. Urban members defeated it handily, 9–30.
A handful of members opposed a Roukema amendment to give HUD's inspector general a mandatory five-year term of office and
to restrict the administration's ability to fire an IG by allowing him or her to “be removed from office by the president only for
cause.” It won by voice vote.
A move by Joseph P. Kennedy II, D-Mass., to insert a Kemp provision that would have more tightly targeted HUD community
development funds to anti-poverty efforts was loudly denounced and withdrawn in the face of defeat. The subcommittee went
along with part of Kemp's targeting effort, but the stricter provision Kennedy proposed was vigorously opposed by the nation's
local governments.
Wylie managed to get a refined version of a Kemp proposal to allocate a set amount of certain HUD funds for evaluating and
monitoring programs. Kemp wanted 0.5 percent (perhaps $100 million). Wylie cut that by half, and the subcommittee eventually
agreed to authorize $25 million for such purposes in fiscal 1991.
House Action
The House rushed its version to the floor on Nov. 14, just days after it had been approved by the Housing Subcommittee. The bill
was approved by voice vote under suspension of the rules, an expedited procedure that allowed no amendments and required a
two-thirds majority for passage.
Key senators, under pressure from the House, were still scrambling to finish writing their version and bring it to the floor.
Staffs for both Housing subcommittees were talking things out Nov. 17, and House aides were guardedly optimistic.
“I don't think there are any major fights,” said one Housing Subcommittee aide. “Obviously, there are things that have to be
worked out.”
Sen. Cranston and his allies had little choice but to quit holding Kemp's reform package hostage to a huge housing
reauthorization bill revamping and expanding federal shelter programs. They weren't willing to take the heat alone for delaying
something called the Department of Housing and Urban Development Reform Act of 1989.
With both Cranston and D'Amato themselves fending off allegations of unethical behavior, their decisions appeared politically
essential.
Both were under review by the Senate Ethics Committee. D'Amato was accused of using HUD programs to reward political
contributors, and Cranston was one of five senators involved in the Lincoln Savings and Loan Association scandal. (Ethics
review, p. 43)
Inspector General Provisions
After it left the House Housing Subcommittee Nov. 9, HR 1 lost one major provision on its direct route to the House floor and
then was given a good going over by Cranston and his staff, working in consultation with other senators and HUD's lobbyists.
House Banking Chairman Gonzalez decided to strip from the bill proposals that would have made HUD's inspector general more
powerful and independent than any other agency's. The Government Operations Committee, which had jurisdiction over inspector
general laws, insisted that the provisions be stripped so it could study the issue.
Roukema, sponsor of the provision, was disappointed but powerless to reverse the decision. “Removing the IG powers greatly
diminishes the effectiveness and impact of these reforms,” she said.
House Floor Debate
House floor action consisted mainly of members standing up to take credit for their contributions to the measure and the events
that led to its passage. No one opposed the bill.
“The House should take great pride in the fact that the Housing Subcommittee spotted the problems at HUD early on in 1981,
the first year, long before the dreary story we read recently,” said Gonzalez, repeating his oft-stated contention that his panel was
on the ball — though ignored — years before the scandal broke in the spring of 1989.
Schumer, a main player in drafting the bill and investigating abuses at HUD, said, “Today begins the process of turning the ugly
duckling known as the Department of Housing and Urban Development into, if not a beautiful swan, at least an efficient,
accountable federal agency.”
Added Rep. Paul E. Kanjorski, D-Pa., who made contributions to the bill, “The days of ‘Dialing for Dollars’ at HUD will finally come
to an end.”
Republicans, too, praised the bill, though they avoided mentioning the GOP flavor of the scandal.
“HR 1 represents a determined effort to reduce the susceptibility of HUD programs to waste, fraud, abuse and political influence,”
said Ohio's Wylie, ranking Republican on the Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs Committee.
2/8/10 2:20 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 9 of 11file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL101…nd%20Urban%20Development%20Reform%20Act%20of%201989.webarchive
There was trepidation about a few provisions.
Roukema and Doug Bereuter, R-Neb., complained about a provision aimed at targeting more CDBG money to anti-poverty efforts.
The provision was the only one of several Kemp CDBG-targeting proposals that made it into the bill. Some feared it would make
CDBG money harder to use in rural and better-off areas, but liberal Democrats liked the idea.
Frank and Wylie noted that private officials who managed and owned HUD-subsidized properties feared they would be the unfair
victims of the agency's new power to punish wrongdoers.
The Senate version probably eased the landlords’ and managers’ fears. Provisions scattered throughout it sought to ensure that
only the most blatant abusers were punished. In addition, “penalties would not be assessed until administrative remedies are
exhausted,” a summary of the bill said.
Earmarking Protected
Some of the other changes in the proposed Senate bill were more far-reaching.
Apparently in response to pressure from appropriators, the measure softened Kemp's proposal that the “secretary's discretionary
fund” be eliminated by asserting that Congress would still be able to “earmark” projects for designated districts and states.
The fund had traditionally been a favorite target for influential members looking for ways to help the folks back home. HUD's
fiscal 1990 spending bill was particularly chock-full of earmarks. Kemp tried and failed to get the House to kill them and said he
might ignore them as part of his effort to rid his agency of political favoritism.
Senate drafters also wanted to remove a fairly significant chunk of housing funds from requirements that subsidies be distributed
to regions of the country by a needs-based “fair share” formula. Aides said the main program to be removed — construction
subsidies for housing projects for the elderly — was too small at less than 10,000 new apartments a year to be effectively spread
across the country.
Other Senate Changes
Other Senate changes:
Removed criminal penalties from a House-altered Kemp provision to bar HUD employees from disclosing insider information.
Applied some of the same reforms to the Department of Agriculture's Farmers Home Administration, which oversaw rural housing
programs.
Enhanced rent-subsidy incentives HUD could give to private owners of subsidized projects to entice them to continue providing low-
rent homes to poor families. Both chambers wanted to extend until  1990 a two-year-old de facto moratorium on such owners’ ability to
convert their projects to upscale condos or apartments.
This was one of the sections of the Senate bill that had Bush budget analysts worried. Another would direct long-term rent
subsidies to federally assisted projects that were awarded HUD rehabilitation loans.
Cracked down on financially weak participants in HUD's default-riddled coinsurance mortgage program by requiring HUD to review its
standards.
Set up three advisory boards to study different housing issues, require various studies, and give new fining and suspension powers to
the existing Mortgage Review Board.
Final Action
Kemp's top aide expressed hope that the bipartisan cooperation between Congress and the administration would continue in
1990, when action was expected on legislation reauthorizing and revising housing programs.
“We consider it a major accomplishment,” said Assistant Secretary Timothy Coyle. “We think it is a vote of confidence for Kemp
and obviously an appreciation of the urgency of getting reform done. Now we can move to … begin to explore new strategies for
housing policy.”
That task was likely to prove trying. The starting points were three dramatically different proposals — HR 1180, S 566 and
President Bush's package of initiatives. (Housing programs, p. 653)
After the House approved its version of HR 1 Nov. 14, a full week of negotiations and drafting proved necessary to complete a
compromise. Face-to-face talks were handled by the staffs of the two Banking committees’ Housing subcommittees, who made
deals on behalf of their bosses. Key HUD officials also sat in on some meetings.
Among the touchiest issues was a provision replacing the “secretary's discretionary fund” for special community development
projects with a much more narrowly focused fund. Proposed by Kemp, the change was designed to prevent HUD funds from
being doled out as political favors.
2/8/10 2:20 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 10 of 11file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL101…d%20Urban%20Development%20Reform%20Act%20of%201989.webarchive
The measure worried House and Senate Appropriations leaders because that account had long been a favorite place for
members to stick money for pork-barrel projects — a jealously protected prerogative of appropriators.
Most concerned were Rep. Bob Traxler, D-Mich., and Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski, D-Md., who headed HUD's Appropriations panels.
In 1989, they allowed members to require HUD to fund about 40 such projects worth almost $30 million. Kemp tried in vain to get
the House to kill the projects, and then threatened to ignore them.
At one point, Cranston suggested a caveat asserting that “Congress would retain the ability to designate projects” for funding. But
Gonzalez and others who backed Kemp's anti-pork fight wanted to kill the caveat.
On the evening of Sunday, Nov. 19, Traxler dropped in on a meeting of House and Senate staffers as they worked on the final
compromise over cold pizza and soft drinks.
“Traxler came over to lobby for it, or to argue for it,” said one staffer. Later, Bartlett, who led the fight against the earmarks,
showed up and argued against the caveat. In the end it was deleted.
Without the caveat, the new provision could make it more difficult — but by no means impossible — for Traxler and Mikulski to
force HUD to fund special community development projects, aides said. The bill eliminated “special projects” as an allowable use
of the fund's money, so appropriators would not be able to earmark projects simply by directing in spending bill reports that HUD
fund them. They probably would have to include them in the bill itself.
A Traxler aide said, “We told him that ‘you can do whatever you want,'” as long as Congress agreed. An aide on the House
Housing Subcommittee said: “I talked with Mr. Traxler about it. He needed some assurance that this would not get into what
Congress could and could not do. He was very satisfied with the answer that he got…. He supports the bill.”
To make sure there was no misunderstanding about the earmarks, Cranston said, “I want to stress that none of the changes
made by this bill will affect any project already approved in an appropriations bill.” Among projects approved in 1989: $500,000
for a homeless shelter in California.
Some members worried about another provision that prohibited advance disclosure of information relating to funding decisions.
New York Rep. Bill  Green, top Republican on Traxler's panel, was worried that HUD employees would be prohibited from
responding to members checking the status of pending grants. During a short floor colloquy, Gonzalez assured Green that he
had nothing to worry about.
Other last-minute agreements: killed Kemp's proposals to target community development block grant funds more tightly to anti-
poverty efforts and to prohibit the use of federal mortgage insurance for vacation homes; retained House-proposed criminal
penalties opposed by some senators; and loosened Senate-proposed requirements that HUD enhance subsidies aimed at
preserving privately owned, federally assisted low-rent housing projects, making some enhancements discretionary rather than
mandatory.
Features
Pierce Faces Special Prosecutor
Attorney General Dick Thornburgh on Feb. 1, 1990, sought appointment of an independent counsel to investigate charges of
criminal fraud against Samuel R. Pierce Jr., former secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), and other Reagan-era
HUD officials.
Thornburgh waited until late Feb. 1 — his 60-day deadline — before asking a panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia Circuit to select a special prosecutor. Members of the House Judiciary Committee on Nov. 2 had demanded that
Thornburgh seek an independent prosecutor to investigate possible criminal conduct by Pierce and other HUD officials implicated
in alleged influence-peddling and other wrongdoing at HUD. (HUD scandal, p. 639)
Thornburgh initially seemed to to be leaning away from a request for a special prosecutor.
“On Nov. 20, 1989, I received a recommendation that no preliminary investigation was necessary. Although I initially accepted
that recommendation, I believe now that the current state of the evidence requires further review and evaluation,” he said in a
Dec. 4 letter to House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jack Brooks, D-Texas. “Because of the extensive nature of the materials to
be reviewed, I am not prepared to make a final determination as to whether the evidence represents sufficiently specific and
credible allegations of criminal conduct warranting the appointment of an independent counsel.”
In asking the Justice Department to take action, Judiciary Committee Democrats made use of a provision of the independent
counsel law (PL 100-191) that allowed a majority of committee members of either party to request appointment of a special
prosecutor to investigate former and current government officials. (1987 Almanac p. 363)
“At this point, Secretary Pierce is presumed innocent,” said Rep. Charles E. Schumer, D-N.Y., chairman of the Subcommittee on
Criminal Justice. “But because of the attorney general's action, the American people can rest assured we will get to the bottom of
the mess at HUD.”
Rep. Bruce A. Morrison, D-Conn., said he was pleased that the prosecutor would have jurisdiction to investigate not only Pierce
but other HUD officials as well.
“Somebody over there decided that they could give out the money without following the rules. That is defrauding the government
2/8/10 2:20 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 11 of 11file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL101…d%20Urban%20Development%20Reform%20Act%20of%201989.webarchive
“Somebody over there decided that they could give out the money without following the rules. That is defrauding the government
as far as I'm concerned. We don't know if it was Samuel Pierce or Lance Wilson or Deborah Dean,” he said, referring to other
former HUD officials. Like Pierce, they had invoked the Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination in refusing to testify
before congressional committees investigating HUD abuses.
Thornburgh asked that an independent counsel investigate allegations that Pierce and others engaged in a conspiracy to defraud
the U.S. government through HUD's Moderate Rehabilitation program. But he said the evidence did not warrant investigating
Pierce for perjury, as the Judiciary Committee had asked.
Thornburgh said “voluminous information” compiled by HUD's inspector general and by the House Government Operations
Subcommittee on Employment and Housing forced him to conclude that an investigation should be conducted.
“Under the terms of the Independent Counsel Act, I have very little latitude in making this determination,” Thornburgh wrote in his
recommendation to the court. “I must apply to the court for appointment of an independent counsel unless I can determine that
there are no reasonable grounds to believe that further investigation is warranted.”
Pierce's attorney, Robert Plotkin, said Pierce was “disappointed, but not totally shocked or surprised.” Plotkin said Thornburgh's
refusal to ask for an investigation into the perjury charges was significant. “We're pleased that the perjury charges have been
thrown out, and I think that reflects that he hasn't done anything wrong.”
Pierce previously had said that he broke no laws during his eight years at HUD and that he allowed subordinates to make
decisions on funding projects.
But other witnesses contradicted Pierce, saying he instructed them to fund projects.
No Probe of Perjury
Pierce appeared May 25 before the House Government Operations Subcommittee on Employment and Housing, the principal
congressional panel investigating abuses at HUD. He later invoked the Fifth Amendment and refused to testify a second time.
Judiciary Committee members said witnesses contradicted two of Pierce's statements to the House subcommittee. Pierce testified
that he did not have “hands on” control over mod-rehab contracts. He also said he never gave Dean, his executive assistant from
1985 to 1987, “any permission to say I wanted certain programs.”
Thornburgh called the “hands on” statement ambiguous and said it would be “virtually impossible” to show that Pierce's use of the
phrase was false. He also said Pierce's statement about Dean contained an “array of plausible interpretations.” He explained,
“When the evidence and the testimony are viewed in context, there are no reasonable grounds to believe that further
investigation of either of these instances would be fruitful in turning up evidence that Secretary Pierce may have committed
perjury.”
Rep. Christopher Shays, R-Conn., a member of the Subcommittee on Employment and Housing, said he still believed Pierce lied.
“For him to have said he never directed any money and never took an interest in any project just defies belief.”
But Shays said it was more important that an independent counsel look at whether Pierce committed fraud. “The key is not
whether he perjured himself. The real question is, [was] he guilty of any illegalities when he was in charge of this agency,” Shays
said.
Document Citation
"Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Reform Bill  Cleared by Congress." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal89-
1139674. Originally published in CQ Almanac 1989 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1990). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac
/cqal89-1139674 (accessed February 4, 2010).
Document ID: cqal89-1139674
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal89-1139674
© 1990, 2010, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
