7/3/09 11:48 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal87-1144200&type=hitlist&num=15
Savings and Loan Industry
1996 GOP Wins Passage of Banking Bill
1995 Plan to Bolster Thrift Fund Dies
1993 Thrift Cleanup Financing
Provisions
1993 Hill Votes More Funds for Thrift
Bailout
1992 S&L Bailout Funding Dries Up
1991 Thrift Bailout Fund Replenished
Twice
1990 Bill To Add Thrift Bailout Funds
Dies
1989 Sweeping Thrift Bailout Bill
Cleared
1989 Lincoln Savings Scandal Examined
in Hearings
1988 Thrift Crisis Debated, but Little
Action Taken
1987 Fears About S&L Insurance Fund
Spur Rescue
1982 Savings and Loan Aid, Banking
Law Changes
1981 Aid for Savings & Loans
1980 Savings and Loan Takeovers
1973 Interest On Savings Deposits
1967 S & L Holding Companies
1967 Federal Savings Banks
1966 Interest Rates on Deposits at
Banks Limited
1954 Savings, Loan Branches
Banking
Congressional Ethics
Fears About S&L Insurance Fund Spur
Rescue
An article from CQ Almanac 1987
Document Outline
Major Provisions
Background
Senate Committee Action
Senate Floor Action
House Committee Action
House Floor Action
Conference Action
President Reagan Aug. 10 signed the Competitive Equality Banking Act of
1987 (HR 27 — PL 100 - 86 ), objecting to many of its provisions but
noting the immediate need to restore confidence in the insolvent Federal
Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation (FSLIC).
The bill's most highly publicized feature was $10.8 billion in new borrowing
authority for FSLIC, which needed the money to reimburse depositors as it
shut down bankrupt thrift institutions. The fund guaranteed deposits up to $
100 ,000 at federally insured S&Ls.
The legislation also closed the “non-bank bank loophole” by which retailers
and financial houses had opened limited-service operations outside the reach
of federal banking regulators.
Throughout congressional consideration of the bill, the prime motivator was
fear that FSLIC, running $6 billion in the red, would be perceived as unable to
reimburse depositors. Such a loss of confidence in federal deposit insurance
was seen as a threat to healthy thrifts and other savings institutions as well.
Despite deep divisions over the extent of new borrowing authority to be
granted to FSLIC, and despite longstanding arguments over provisions in the
bill to regulate banking powers and financial services, the legislation won final
passage by wide margins in both the House and Senate.
The Senate used the thrift crisis to propel a far larger agenda of banking issues to a successful floor vote on March
27. The House passed a “clean” $5 billion FSLIC rescue package on May 5.
The Senate bill (S 790) included $7.5 billion in borrowing authority for FSLIC. But it also closed the non-bank bank
loophole. The bill balanced this move, to a degree, by temporarily forbidding banks to continue moving into non-
traditional lines of business — specifically insurance, real estate and securities underwriting. The Senate measure
also included several consumer features, such as shorter check-clearing time and clearer information regarding loan
terms and costs.
In conference (H Rept 100 –261), the House generally accepted the Senate's broader agenda, much of which
the House itself had passed in recent years without corresponding action from the Senate. Conferees from both
bodies generally agreed that FSLIC eventually would need more borrowing authority, although the committee leaders
could find only enough votes at the time to raise the amount in the bill to $8.5 billion.
But the White House announced that Reagan would veto the bill as it emerged from conference July 1. Reagan
wanted more FSLIC borrowing authority and he wanted the relationship between banks and their various
competitors left to the marketplace. Three weeks of vote-hunting apparently left White House officials uncertain of
sustaining a veto, so Treasury Secretary James A. Baker III and conference leaders negotiated a three-feature
compromise instead.
First, FSLIC would receive $10.8 billion in borrowing authority.
Second, phase-out deadlines were imposed on some of the bill's forbearance provisions, which were designed to
 
7/3/09 11:48 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal87-1144200&type=hitlist&num=15
Second, phase-out deadlines were imposed on some of the bill's forbearance provisions, which were designed to
keep open well-managed thrifts victimized by recent drops in energy and farm prices.
Third, Baker won a provision by which non-bank banks would be allowed to acquire failing thrifts that had assets of
$500 million or more.
House and Senate Banking panel leaders of both parties agreed to this package and, in an extraordinary maneuver,
reopened the conference on the night of July 29. Several members of the conference committee objected strongly
to the procedure, but anxiety over the state of FSLIC prevailed and the Baker compromise passed easily. The same
dynamic helped to push the final package through the House Rules Committee and win floor approval in both
bodies.
Major Provisions
As cleared by Congress, the bill:
FSLIC Recapitalization
“Full Faith and Credit.” Reaffirmed that insurance by the FSLIC, or by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(FDIC), represented the “full faith and credit” of the United States. This restated Congress' commitment to back FSLIC's
own resources and reserves with general (taxpayer) funds, if need be, to reimburse any FSLIC-insured depositor up to
$ 100 ,000.
Borrowing Authority. Authorized FSLIC to borrow, through a newly created financing corporation, up to $10.825 billion
through bond issues. The borrowing, which was to begin as soon as September 1987. was restricted to $11.75 billion
per year. Interest on the bonds was to be paid by FSLIC-insured financial institutions.
Financing Corporation. Created a financing corporation to handle the new borrowing envisioned by the bill.  The
corporation would be governed by a directorate of three members: an officer of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board
(FHLBB) and two others selected from among the presidents of the regional Federal Home Loan Banks.
Member Assessments. Empowered the new financing corporation to assess each FSLIC-insured institution each year
for an amount not to exceed one-twelfth of 1 percent of the total value of the FSLIC-insured accounts in that institution.
Exceptional Assessments. Empowered the financing corporation further to assess FSLIC-insured institutions, on an
annual basis, for an amount not to exceed one-eighth of 1 percent of insured accounts. Such assessments required
approval by all members of the directorate of the financing corporation and concurrence by the FHLBB.
The financing corporation was not entitled to collect assessments beyond the amounts necessary to pay interest on,
and issuance and custodial costs of. its obligations.
Offset for Secondary Reserve. Permitted institutions to offset against certain FSLIC assessments (but not the special
financing corporation's assessments) the amounts paid in past years to FSLIC's so-called secondary reserve. This
reserve, the assessments for which had been phased out, equaled approximately $824 million. Each institution could
offset no more than one-fifth of its statutorily prescribed share of that amount in any single year.
Exit Moratorium. Denied any FSLIC-insured institution the option of voluntarily ceasing to be insured within the first
year after enactment of the bill.  The provision was intended to prevent departures from the FSLIC program that would
undermine both FSLIC and the new financing plan. It was not intended to interfere with the liquidating or emergency
acquisition of a failing institution.
Exit Fees. Empowered the financing corporation, with the approval of the FHLBB, to require an exit fee. The fee
consisted of two years' worth of FSLIC insurance premiums and two years' worth of special financing assessments
(based on a 1986 supplemental assessment levied under separate legislation).
Reduced Exit Fees. Permitted the financing corporation, at its sole discretion, to reduce an exit fee if the exiting
institution would otherwise pose a substantial risk to FSLIC's assets and if a reduced fee was necessary to the sale or
other disposition of the institution in question.
Exemption From Exit Ban and Penalties. Allowed institutions that took certain actions on or before March 31, 1987, to
be exempted from FSLIC exit fees. Such institutions were also allowed to cease FSLIC coverage during the initial year
after enactment.
The required actions included proper notice of a thrift's combination with another institution insured by FDIC,
whether by conversion, merger, acquisition or other means.
Banking Regulations
Redefinition of “Bank.” Amended the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, which defined a “bank” as an institution
taking deposits and writing commercial loans. The new definition included any FDIC-insured institution, as well as non-
FDIC institutions, that accepted deposits and wrote commercial loans.
7/3/09 11:48 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal87-1144200&type=hitlist&num=15
The act maintained current-law exclusions from the definition of a bank for FSLIC-insured federally chartered thrift
institutions and certain institutions operating outside the United States. Other specific exceptions were made for
credit, unions, credit-card banks, certain trust companies, and certain industrial banks and industrial loan
companies.
Closing “Non-Bank” Loophole. Prohibited new limited-service (or non-bank) banks from engaging in banking
activities without federal regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act.
Grandfathering. Permitted companies that acquired a limited-service bank on or before March 5, 1987, to retain the
bank without being regarded as a bank holding company (and thus regulated under the Bank Holding Company Act).
But such a company could not acquire control of — or more than 5 percent of the shares or assets of — an additional
bank or thrift.
Restrictions on Grandfathered Institutions. Prohibited such institutions, beginning one year after enactment, to
increase their assets at an annual rate of more than 7 percent. Such institutions also could not permit an overdraft on
behalf of an affiliate of the parent company. The act also prohibited joint marketing between the grandfathered institution
and the company's non-banking affiliates. Thus a company could not market life insurance or automotive supplies
through its bank subsidiary.
Moratorium on Expanded Bank Services. Prohibited federal regulatory approval of banks' applications to engage in
the commercial activities of insurance, real estate or securities underwriting. The moratorium was retroactive to March 6,
1987, and scheduled to expire March 1, 1988.
The conference report included language expressing the intent of Congress not to extend the expiration date and to
develop a more comprehensive and permanent approach to bank-offered services in these areas.
Loan-Loss Amortization for Agricultural Banks. Permitted agricultural banks to write down loan losses over seven
years rather than deducting the amount of loss from their capital as soon as the loss was recognized. Provided the
regulatory agency found no evidence of fraud or criminal abuse, a bank could reappraise real estate or other property
acquired coincident to the making of a qualified agricultural loan.
An agricultural bank was defined as an FDIC-insured institution with $ 100  million or less in assets, located in
an area economically dependent on agriculture, and having at least 25 percent of its total loans in qualified
agricultural loans.
Accounting and Management
Accounting. Required the FHLBB and FSLIC to formulate regulations for the eventual application of generally accepted
accounting principles (GAAP) to all thrift institutions, instead of the current regulatory accounting principles. This was
intended to bring the appraisal of thrifts' financial condition into line with the principles applied by regulators of
commercial banks.
Classification of Assets. Required the FHLBB to implement a new regulation classifying thrifts' assets in a manner
consistent with the practice of commercial banks' regulators. The principal supervisory agent appointed to oversee a
given institution had the option of directing that institution to create additional general-loss reserves.
Limitation on Writedowns. Prohibited the FHLBB from requiring an institution to write down assets or establish
reserves against assets if these actions would result in a larger writedown than was required under GAAP (unless that
practice was consistent with commercial bank regulatory actions).
The conference report observed: “In a depressed economy, where market values are a fraction of what they were
several years ago, regulations … have resulted in severe writedowns of many institutions' net worth … even though
the underlying collateral is income-producing and the debt servicing may have been maintained.”
Forbearance. Allowed a weakened thrift institution to continue operating if its condition stemmed primarily from the
depressed economy in its region and if it maintained a net worth (total asset value over liabilities) of at least one-half of 1
percent. Existing law required a net worth of 3 percent.
Thrifts wishing to receive forbearance were required to submit a plan for regaining profitability to the FHLBB, which
was to implement regulations the conference report said would maximize “long-term viability of the thrift industry at
the lowest cost to the FSLIC.”
The conference report said the forbearance (or “capital recovery”) program was not intended to restrict any authority
of the FHLBB to correct “any fraud, criminal activity, imprudent operating practices or managerial incompetence.”
Minority Community Thrifts. Extended the capital-recovery program to viable and well-managed minority-owned thrift
institutions primarily serving minority communities.
Capital Instrument Purchase. Reaffirmed congressional support, for the FHLBB's use of capital certificates — paper
assets certain thrifts were allowed to count in their net worth under provisions of the Garn-St Germain Act of 1982 — for
thrifts in the capital-recovery program.
7/3/09 11:48 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal87-1144200&type=hitlist&num=15
Sunset. Phased out certain forbearance and management provisions of the act when the financing corporation issued
the last obligations under its borrowing authority. Given the $3.75 billion annual cap on borrowing, this was not expected
to occur for at least 30 months.
Emergency Acquisitions
FSLIC Approval of Interstate Acquisitions. Permitted FSLIC to approve an interstate acquisition of a failing thrift
institution if, as of March 5, 1987, the acquiring company controlled an insured subsidiary with a home or branch office
in the state of the institution to be acquired. Alternatively, FSLIC could approve such an acquisition if the laws of the
acquired institution's state specifically permitted such action by an institution from the acquiring institution's state.
Easing Garn-St Germain Restrictions. Extended the opportunities for bank holding companies to acquire and expand
failing institutions on an interstate basis by permitting out-of-state holding companies to acquire qualified stock
institutions, as well as mutual savings banks, before they failed.
Asset Threshold. Permitted a holding company to be sold, in whole or in part, to an out-of-state holding company, if
the in-state holding company had subsidiary banking interests with aggregate assets of $500 million or more. The bank
to be acquired had to be “in danger of closing” and had to represent a third or more of the holding company's banking
assets. The acquiring out-of-state entity had the right to expand in the state of acquisition.
Acquisition Rights for Non-Bank Banks. Ex tended the right to acquire such a failing institution to the 168 financial
service entities operating as limited-service banks as of March 5, 1987.
State Approval. Permitted the FDIC to authorize a merger or acquisition of a failing bank or its holding company without
the concurrence of the state bank supervisor in the state where the acquired institution was chartered.
“Bridge Banks.” Created a new means for dealing with bank failures by allowing FDIC to bridge the gap between a
failed bank and a satisfactory buy-or-assume takeover that remained incomplete at the time of the target bank's failure.
The “bridge bank” assumed the assets and liabilities and carried on the business of the failed bank for a limited time.
The FDIC had to find that the net cost of a bridge bank would not exceed the net cost of liquidating the failed bank,
and that operation of the failed bank was essential to the community or in the best interest of the depositors and
public.
Regulatory Agencies
OMB Control. Exempted banking regulatory agencies from the apportionment, process by which the Office of
Management and Budget (OMB) distributed funding reductions among executive agencies. The exemption assured the
agencies of the funds appropriated for them by Congress and eliminated a major element of White House influence over
their operation.
Sequestration. Exempted banking regulatory agencies from any freeze on their appropriated funds if a sequestration
order resulted from the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings deficit-reduction law.
Consumer Provisions
Local Check Clearance. Required, as of Sept. 1, 1988, that checks drawn on banks within the same check-processing
region of the Federal Reserve System be cleared within three business days. As of Sept. 1, 1990, such funds had to be
made available to depositors within two business days.
Out-of-Town Check Clearance. Required, as of Sept. 1, 1988, that checks drawn on banks from another check-
clearing region be cleared within seven business days. As of Sept. 1., 1990, such funds had to be available within five
business days.
Next-Day Availability. Required next-business-day availability as of Sept. 1, 1988, for: cash deposits; local, state or
federal government checks; the first $ 100  of any day's check deposits; checks drawn on the institution of deposit;
cashier's checks, certified checks and teller's checks.
Delayed Cash Withdrawals. Permitted cash withdrawals to be delayed one day beyond the otherwise specified
intervals, except that $ 100  was to be made available the day after deposit and an additional $400 was to be
available at 5 p.m. on the specified deadline day. Deposits made in automatic-teller machines not owned by the
depository institution could be held for up to six days, until  Sept. 1, 1990. After that, normal hold periods applied except
that funds otherwise available one day after deposit required an additional day.
Federal Pre-emption. Superseded inconsistent state laws governing the availability of funds except where such laws, in
effect before Sept. 1, 1989, provided swifter availability.
Adjustable Rate Mortgage. Required that adjustable rate mortgages include a limit on the maximum rate to which
interest, might be raised over the life of the loan. This applied only to loans secured by a lien on a one-to-four-family
dwelling unit.
7/3/09 11:48 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal87-1144200&type=hitlist&num=15
Background
The bill began its, odyssey in 1986, when Treasury Secretary Baker proposed $15 billion in new borrowing authority
for FSLIC. That figure met resistance in Congress, where the S&L industry's potent lobbying efforts had made a
case for a smaller fund. The industry was required to pay the interest on whatever funds FSLIC borrowed for use in
liquidating failed institutions.
Under the proposal, reserves from the 12 regional Federal Home Loan Banks — which served as central banks for
federally insured S&Ls — were to be used to back publicly issued bonds that would ultimately raise the necessary
funds. The administration plan also asked Congress to approve expanded powers for federal regulators to handle
problem banks and S&Ls. Coupled with $10 billion from existing sources of income, the plan would give FSLIC
about $25 billion to deal with troubled thrifts.
The motivating force behind the proposal and the demand for congressional action was the deteriorating condition
of the S&L insurance fund. A growing number of failed S&Ls had drained FSLlC's primary insurance fund to only
$1.4 billion, even though FSLIC was guaranteeing more than $900 billion in deposits at 3,200 S&Ls across the
country.
An audit released by the General Accounting Office (GAO) March 3 found that FSLIC had a negative net worth of
about $3 billion. Federal regulators said as much as $25 billion might be needed over the following few years to
close hundreds of insolvent S&Ls. FSLIC officials warned that some 347 troubled thrifts were losing about $2 billion
a year.
But the savings industry, led by the U.S. League of Savings Institutions, argued that the federal insurance fund was
in much better financial condition than was claimed by the GAO and the administration, and it proposed an
alternative two-year, $5 billion borrowing plan. The U.S. League strongly objected to the debt burden that the
administration plan would impose on its members, as well as the power it would give FSLIC to close marginal S&Ls
suffering from recessions in farm and oil-producing states.
Senate Committee Action
The Senate Banking Committee March 10 voted 12-6 to approve a bill (S 790 — S Rept 100 -19) that would
raise $7.5 billion for FSLIC. The committee package, presented by Chairman William Proxmire, D-Wis., also was
designed to pressure the financial services industry into agreeing on a basic restructuring of federal laws that
separated banking from commerce. The bill imposed a one-year moratorium on the formation of so-called non-bank
banks and on the granting of new powers for banks to sell securities, insurance and real estate.
Proponents said the freeze — drafted by committee Democrats during a series of caucuses in February and March
— would force the private sector to agree on a new set of laws to govern the financial industry. But critics argued
the pressure would not work and that the controversial provisions would only delay the approval of aid to FSLIC.
The bill differed significantly from a draft proposal unveiled by Proxmire Feb. 17. That version would have closed
the non-bank bank loophole but also would have expanded banks' powers to sell securities, among other changes.
As reported by the committee, the banking package included the following major provisions:
$7.5 billion for FSLIC, through the borrowing arrangement proposed by President Reagan. Under this plan, reserves of
the Federal Home Loan Banks would be used to back bonds issued by a new Financing Corporation for sale to private
investors.
Emergency powers to allow federal bank regulators to merge failing banks and to establish “bridge” banks to
temporarily manage insolvent institutions.
A one-year ban on new non-bank banks created after March 5, 1987, and a one-year ban on any new securities,
insurance or real estate powers for banks.
Permanent conservatorship authority for the National Credit Union Administration to deal with troubled credit unions.
Requirements that financial institutions disclose the amount of time that they hold customers' checks before making the
funds available for withdrawal. A similar “check-hold” measure (HR 28 — H Rept 100 -52) was passed by the
House May 5. (Vote 80, p. 28-H) (Related story, p. 636)
An effort by Jake Garn, R-Utah, to pass only the FSLIC and regulatory powers provisions was voted down 6–12.
Two attempts to expand the amount of aid to FSLIC were also defeated, even though the $7.5 billion provided in
the bill was only half as much as the Reagan administration said was needed. Garn's amendment to increase FSLIC
funding to $10 billion failed on a 9-9 tie vote, and an amendment by Phil Gramm, R-Texas, to increase it to $15
billion was rejected 5–13.
The committee accepted by voice vote an amendment by Terry Sanford, D-N.C., to limit FSLIC borrowing to $7.5
7/3/09 11:48 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal87-1144200&type=hitlist&num=15
billion, of which no more than $3.75 billion could be spent in each of the first two years.
Other Amendments
Other amendments to the bill included those by:
Alan Cranston, D-Calif., agreed to by voice vote, exempting industrial loan companies from non-bank bank restrictions;
allowing existing non-bank banks to open new locations but restricting their annual average growth in assets to 7
percent a year (the bill's original limit was 3 percent); and limiting the power of the Federal Reserve, the nation's central
bank, to revoke operating rights for existing non-bank banks.
Gramm, agreed to by voice vote, codifying administrative agreements made by the Federal Home Loan Bank Board to
grant forbearance to well-run but weak S&Ls in economically depressed states such as Texas. FSLIC would be given
greater flexibility to classify troubled thrifts and restructure bad loans. An appeals process would be established for
thrifts that disputed FSLIC appraisals of their assets.
A related amendment by Jim Sasser, D-Tenn., also agreed to by voice vote, would allow FSLIC to use less stringent
accounting practices in certain cases when writing off bad loans.
John Heinz, R-Pa., and Christopher J. Dodd, D-Conn., adopted 14-4, imposing a one-year moratorium on new
insurance powers for banks. This was designed to close the so-called “South Dakota loophole,” a state law that allowed
hank holding companies with subsidiaries in that state to sell insurance (a normally prohibited activity for banks) outside
South Dakota. Dodd, who represented a state that was home to many of the nation's major insurance companies, had
also proposed a permanent closing of the loophole, which was rejected.
Donald W. Riegle Jr., D-Mich., adopted 10-8, exempting federal bank regulatory agencies from automatic budget cuts
under the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings deficit-control law (PL 99-177). Proponents said the Gramm-Rudman exemption
was justified because federal bank regulatory agencies were funded by the agencies they regulated, and because the
banking industry was hiring away the government's best bank inspectors. But critics said the exemption would increase
the share of budget cuts in other domestic programs and create political problems for the bill on the Senate floor.
Senate Floor Action
The Senate March 27 approved the $7.5 billion legislation after it agreed to weaken a controversial moratorium on
new powers for banks to sell insurance, securities and real estate. The vote on the bill was 79-11. (Vote 44, p. 11-
S)
During three days of floor debate March 25–28, the major battle centered on an amendment by freshman John B.
Breaux, D-La., to delete the one-year moratorium. A coalition of banking groups, led by the American Bankers
Association, had lobbied heavily to kill the provision.
After a full day of negotiations March 26, Breaux agreed to a compromise that kept the moratorium but modified it
to:
End on March 1, 1988 (instead of one year after enactment, as the bill first proposed), with a statement of congressional
intent that no extension would be allowed. During the moratorium, federal regulators could continue to process
applications for new bank powers.
Include foreign banks in the moratorium, freezing their ability to expand or acquire U.S. banks.
Create a presidential blue-ribbon commission to come up with a proposal to overhaul financial services laws.
Protect the authority of states to let state-chartered banks sell insurance, real estate or securities within their
boundaries. Breaux said that this provision, which was strongly defended as a states' -rights issue, would exempt from
the moratorium about 8,000 state-chartered banks that were not currently members of the Federal Reserve system.
Floor Amendments
Among other major amendments to the bill were those by:
Garn, defeated 35–54, to strike from the bill the ban on non-bank banks and the moratorium on new banking powers.
(Vote 43, p. 11-S)
John C. Danforth, R-Mo., withdrew an amendment that would have banned all non-bank banks within four years of
enactment. Danforth argued against granting existing non-bank banks permanent status, but Proxmire and others
said the provision was part of a “delicate compromise” that should not be upset.
Grarnm, adopted by voice vote, striking a provision of the bill that would have exempted bank regulatory agencies from
automatic budget cuts under-the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings deficit-control law.
7/3/09 11:48 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal87-1144200&type=hitlist&num=15
Alan J. Dixon, D-Ill., agreed to by voice vote, allowing agricultural banks 10 years to write off bad loans incurred from
1984 to 1991. The amendment also allowed federal regulators or state bank commissioners to extend this accounting
forbearance in certain cases to banks that had less than 25 percent of their loan portfolios in agricultural ventures — the
standard threshold for definition as a farm bank.
Howard M. Metzenbaum, D-Ohio. agreed to by voice vote, requiring banks to cash federal welfare checks, and requiring
banks to impose a ceiling on adjustable rate mortgages.
Heinz, agreed to by voice vole, pledging the “full faith and credit” of the federal government behind FSLIC's obligations.
Garn, agreed to by voice vote, allowing interstate purchases of failed S&Ls by “grandfathered” non-bank banks. Under
the bill,  non-bank banks which were in existence before March 5. 1987, would be given permanent grandfather rights.
An amendment by Bob Graham, D-Fla., approved 52-42, limited the Garn provision to states with laws that explicitly
permitted out-of-state purchases of failed S&Ls. (Vote 41, p. 11-S)
Alfonse M. D'Amato, R-N.Y., agreed to by voice vote, requiring a GAO report on the impact of high-yield but risky “junk
bonds.”
Heinz, adopted by voice vote, allowing the Federal Reserve to pay private businesses for check-clearing services.
House Committee Action
Under heavy pressure from House leaders and the thrift industry, the House Banking Committee April 1 approved a
sharply limited $5 billion borrowing plan to shore up the bankrupt federal fund.
Although the committee reported the bill (HR 27 — H Rept 100-62) by a 45-5 margin, it split 25-24 on a crucial
vote to reject President Reagan's $15 billion plan. The smaller package was backed by the S&L industry.
The committee action reversed a vote the day before by the Financial Institutions Subcommittee in favor of the $15
billion plan, and represented a major victory for the thrift industry and for Speaker Jim Wright, D-Texas, who lobbied
against the larger amount. The smaller figure would force Congress to return to the issue in two years, a goal of the
S&L industry.
House supporters of the U.S. League position, such as Doug Barnard Jr., D-Ga., and Stephen L. Neal, D-N.C., argued
that Congress would have to revisit the FSLIC issue in two years anyway, since no one knew how much money
would be needed. But critics, led by Thomas R. Carper, D-Del., said the $5 billion amount would only postpone the
problem and ultimately raise the cost of resuscitating FSLIC.
The plan was supported by Wright and the chairman of the Banking Committee, Fernand J. St Germain, D-R.I.
The major battles in the committee centered on two issues:
Carper's attempt to raise the bill's $5 billion, two-year borrowing terms to $15 billion over five years, as sought by
Reagan. Carper's amendment won in subcommittee March 31 by a vote of 23-20. but the full committee voted 25-24 the
next day for an amendment by Neal to return to (he lower limits.
Carper subsequently offered an amendment to set the borrowing limits at $12 billion over four years, which was
defeated 24–26. The committee then rejected by voice vote a last-ditch effort by the committee's ranking
Republican. Chalmers P. Wylie of Ohio, to set the limits at $10.5 billion over three years.
An amendment by Gerald D. Kleczka, D-Wis., to protect FSLIC's income by imposing a stiff exit fee on healthy S&Ls
that sought to leave the system by converting to banks and obtaining less expensive deposit insurance from the Federal
Deposit insurance Corporation (FDIC). The amendment, defeated 20–27 in full committee, would have required S&Ls to
pay an exit fee amounting to four years of their regular and special annual assessments from FSLIC.
As reported by committee, HR 27 contained a mandatory two-year exit fee. At the time, FSLIC could charge the
equivalent of a two-year exit fee, although the exact amount was negotiable.
Kleczka warned of an “exodus” of S&Ls from FSLIC in order to avoid higher assessments, which could undermine
the borrowing plan. But Barnard, who proposed the two-year exit fee, said the four-year fee “would be tantamount
10 extortion.”
The Carper Amendment
The most intense maneuvering occurred over Carper's amendment to increase the size of the package — a
sensitive issue for Wright and other Texans, who feared a strong FSLIC would close down many Texas S&Ls
weakened by the collapse of the oil industry.
The Speaker appeared before a March 17 caucus of Banking Committee Democrats to lobby for the $5 billion, two-
7/3/09 11:48 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal87-1144200&type=hitlist&num=15
The Speaker appeared before a March 17 caucus of Banking Committee Democrats to lobby for the $5 billion, two-
year package. Jack Brooks, D-Texas, chairman of the House Government Operations Committee, also was
reportedly pushing hard for the plan. Although Wright's staff denied he pressured Democratic members to change
their votes, several members said the Speaker's presence was felt.
“I'll let today's vote and the broken arms speak for themselves,” a dejected Carper said after losing the April 1 vote.
Two Banking Committee members who had voted for Carper in subcommittee changed their votes when Neal's
amendment came up in full committee. Barnard abstained and Marcy Kaptur, D-Ohio, switched her vote to support
Neal. Both denied they had been pressured by Wright.
Carper said the deciding vote was that of Del. Walter E. Fauntroy, D-D.C., who did not attend the committee meeting
but who, according to Carper, had pledged his “proxy” to the $15 billion plan. “It swung on how that one proxy was
used,” Carper said. During the crucial roll call April 1, Fauntroy's vote was cast by St Germain for the $5 billion
plan.
Other Amendments
Other major amendments considered in subcommittee and full committee included those by:
Jim Leach, R-Iowa, defeated in subcommittee 7–30 and in full committee 12–36, to restrict the ability of S&Ls to make
direct investments in high-risk projects such as fast-food restaurants or race tracks.
Stan Parris, R-Va., agreed to by voice vote in full committee, pledging the “full faith and credit” of the federal
government behind FSLIC's liabilities.
Parris, defeated by voice vote in subcommittee and withdrawn in full committee, to require the use of more stringent
accounting standards by S&L regulators within five years.
An amendment offered by Steve Bartlett, R-Texas, requiring a study of the impact of tougher accounting standards
on FSLIC, was agreed to by voice vote in subcommittee.
Kleczka, withdrawn in subcommittee, that would have required the GAO to conduct a feasibility study of merging KSLIC
and FDIC. St Germain said he and Wylie would request the GAO to conduct the study.
Provisions
As reported by the committee, HR 27 would raise $5 billion over two years by using the same complex borrowing
arrangement proposed by the Treasury Department. Under this plan, $1 billion from the 12 regional Federal Home
Loan Banks would be used to establish a separate Financing Corporation, which in turn would issue bonds for sale
to private investors, generating the $5 billion. No more than $2.5 billion could be raised each year. FSLIC-member
S&Ls ultimately would be responsible for repaying interest on the 30-year bonds through assessments levied on
their deposits by FSLIC.
One of the major elements of HR 27 was a strong series of “forbearance” requirements that lawmakers said were
designed to keep FSLIC on a “short leash.” Many S&L officials complained of unduly aggressive treatment by
federal bank examiners and regulators, and Texas lawmakers in particular demanded that FSLIC help troubled S&Ls
suffering from the current economic downturn in that state.
Bartlett, who sponsored a bill (HR 1063) spelling out forbearance standards, managed to incorporate many of his
provisions into HR 27.
For example, the bill mandated that a “well-managed” thrift with a net worth of 0.5 percent of assets or more “shall
not be closed.” The current average net worth of S&Ls was slightly less than 5 percent, according to the U.S.
League. S&Ls with net worth below 0.5 percent also could avoid closure if they could show their loan losses were a
result of “economic conditions in a designated economically depressed region.”
Standards also were provided for restructuring bad S&L loans, and for appealing decisions by federal regulators.
The Federal Home Loan Bank Board was required to submit quarterly reports on its operations to Congress. In
addition, the bill would have permanently extended the 1982 Garn-St Germain Act (PL 97-320), allowing for
emergency interstate acquisitions of closed thrifts, the use of “net worth certificates” to prop up the ledgers of ailing
S&Ls, and increased powers for the National Credit Union Administration to manage weak credit unions.
Wright Reversal
In a surprise reversal, House Speaker Wright April 28 agreed to support the administration's $15 billion, five-year
FSLIC rescue plan.
The switch marked a significant victory for the Reagan administration, which had been lobbying hard for its
borrowing package. It also marked a defeat for Wright and the U.S. League of Savings Institutions, which had been
pushing the $5 billion, two-year FSLIC plan.
Colleagues had warned Wright in a letter that the smaller package was “a Band-Aid to stem a hemorrhage,” and
7/3/09 11:48 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 9 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal87-1144200&type=hitlist&num=15
Colleagues had warned Wright in a letter that the smaller package was “a Band-Aid to stem a hemorrhage,” and
would lose if put to a vote on the House floor. In a joint statement, Wright and Banking Committee Chairman St
Germain said that S&L problems had become so severe that FSLIC needed the larger amount sought by President
Reagan. “Our monitoring of the continuing problems in the industry has convinced us that [HR 27] needs to be
beefed up,” they said. “The situation does, indeed, require the kind of long-range confidence that can be infused
with a $15 billion, five-year recapitalization plan.”
Carper, who authored the bipartisan “Dear Colleague” letter April 23 on behalf of the larger FSLIC package, met
with Wright repeatedly to lobby on the issue. Carper argued that many lawmakers were genuinely worried that
FSLIC's financial problems could significantly add to the federal deficit unless an industry-financed solution was
developed. Also, he said, no one wanted to fight the same battle again in two years, as would have been required
under the U.S. League's plan.
Other lawmakers attributed the switch in Wright's position to several other factors: a growing number of constituents
worried about the safety of their savings; embarrassing new revelations about fraud and mismanagement by Texas
S&Ls; heavy criticism in the news media of Wright's personal efforts to protect questionable thrifts in his home state;
and the probability that Carper had the votes to win.
House Floor Action
However, the House May 5 defied the wishes of President Reagan and party leaders and defeated the five-year $15
billion bill. It approved one-third that amount — $5 billion over two years — as sought by the S&L industry.
The White House issued a veto threat against the bill, saying it did not provide enough money for the bankrupt
fund.
While supporters maintained that the lower amount was adequate, critics said it would increase the probability of a
Treasury bailout of the thrift industry in the near future. The bigger package “is long enough, big enough, fair
enough to do the job,” said Buddy Roemer, D-La. “To do anything less means we will be back next year doing twice
this much with taxpayers' dollars.”
The key vote came on an amendment by Banking Committee Chairman St Germain, raising to $15 billion the
amount that could be borrowed by FSLIC to merge, manage or close hundreds of insolvent S&Ls. That amendment
was defeated, 153–258. The House went on to pass the bill by a vote of 402-6, leaving intact the more-limited
borrowing plan approved April 1 by the Banking panel. (Votes 83, 85, p. 28-H)
During the vote on the St Germain amendment, a majority of Democrats and Republicans abandoned their
leadership — even though the $15 billion plan was strongly backed by the Reagan administration and House GOP
leaders, and had been endorsed just a week earlier by St Germain and Speaker Wright. Lawmakers credited — or
blamed — the defeat of St Germain's amendment on an intensive grass-roots lobbying campaign waged by the U.S.
League of Savings Institutions. “What happened was, the thrifts have a lot of clout, and they lobbied us very
heavily,” said Charles E. Schumer, D-N.Y. “They did a full-court press, and very effectively.”
Schumer and others cited the U.S. League's tactic of mobilizing local S&L executives to contact their members of
Congress about the group's opposition to the amendment. Dozens of thrift officials flew to Washington to visit
lawmakers in person during the final days before the vote.
Added Carper, who led the unsuccessful fight for the $15 billion plan: “Too many of my colleagues said they didn't
want to be cut off at the knees,” by antagonizing their local thrifts. Schumer also noted that once Wright gave his
press statement [supporting the $15 billion plan], he did little else to lobby for the bill.
Ironically, a letter circulated on Capitol Hill earlier in the week from the GAO, reporting that FSLIC's insolvency had
grown to about $6 billion.
More Floor Amendments
Other floor amendments to HR 27 were those by:
Kleczka, defeated by voice vote, doubling the proposed exit fee for S&Ls leaving FSLIC.
Claude Pepper, D-Fla., agreed to by voice vote, extending the FSLIC forbearance requirements to all minority-owned
institutions, and directing the Treasury Department to expand the use of minority-owned S&Ls for federal deposits.
Parris, agreed to by voice vote, phasing out over five years the use of regulatory accounting standards to monitor S&Ls,
and standardizing the use of more stringent “generally accepted accounting principles.” The thrift industry argued that
adopting tougher accounting standards too quickly might worsen S&Ls' problems and increase the drain on FSLIC
reserves.
Leach, defeated 17–391, limiting the ability of S&Ls to make direct investments in real estate and other holdings. He
argued that federally insured thrifts should not be allowed to make highly speculative investments. (Vote 84, p. 28-H)
Conference Action
7/3/09 11:48 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 10 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal87-1144200&type=hitlist&num=15
As requested by Banking Committee Chairman Proxmire, the Senate May 14 substituted the House-passed version
of HR 27 with the entire text of S 790. The vote was 93-3. (Vote 109, p. 21-S)
Garn, the committee's ranking Republican, offered an amendment to delete the most controversial bank powers
provisions, leaving a “clean” FSLIC bill. That was defeated 37–62. (Vote 110, p. 21-S)
“I feel very, very strongly that we should not encumber the recapitalization of FSLIC with any [other] provisions,”
Garn said. “Why should we waste more time by sending the same controversial package back to the House,
knowing they will not accept it?”
The Senate then passed the bill by voice vote, and requested a conference with the House.
Proxmire said the banking issues were closely linked to FSLIC, and defended his strategy of using the FSLIC
measure to plug the so-called “non-bank bank” loophole — one of his top priorities.
Proxmire said the government would find it difficult to sell off ailing thrifts if prospective buyers could save money by
entering the same financial market through the non-bank bank loophole. He said the Senate should be allowed to
negotiate this and other banking issues in conference with the House.
The measure then returned to the House. On May 28 the House balked at going to conference with the Senate and
sent the measure back to the House Banking Committee to decide how to proceed. The move was intended to force
the Senate to drop the unrelated provisions to restrict banks and other financial institutions. But when it became
clear the Senate would not do so, Banking panel members voted 48-1 on June 4 to seek a conference. The House
agreed to a conference June 11 by voice vote.
House Concedes on Banking Issues
On the opening day of the conference, June 22, St Germain capitulated to Proxmire's demands that all points in the
Senate's version of the bill be negotiated. An attempt by House Republicans to strip all but the FSLIC provisions
failed on an 8–11 vote among House conferees.
Aides to St Germain said it was clear that senators were adamant about taking up their entire bill, and that a
compromise on FSLIC would be impossible without first working on the other Senate provisions. They added that St
Germain personally supported the controversial provision of S 790 that would permanently close a loophole in
existing law that allowed for the creation of so-called non-bank banks.
The first agreement by conferees came June 25 and involved the new check-clearing regulations and a number of
financial-service regulation issues. Conferees agreed on a compromise proposal to reduce substantially the time
banks could take to clear depositors' checks. House conferees won agreement to check-hold limits included in a
separate House-passed bill (HR 28) after agreeing to Senate demands to delay the implementation of the interim
schedule until one year after the date of enactment.
House conferees also agreed to allow the Federal Reserve Board to grant an extra day to institutions in remote
areas that could show that at least 25 percent of their checks could not be cleared within the allotted times. The
House bill had called for a case-by-case review for such extensions.
Conferees also agreed to extend permanently the Garn-St Germain law. But they agreed only to a five-year
extension of a major provision of the law permitting federal regulators to aid ailing institutions through a series of
paper transactions used to avoid direct federal outlays.
Outlines of Agreement
On July 1, conferees agreed on a final package, including an $8.5 billion plan to bolster FSLIC and a proposal to
freeze the legal definition that separated banks from their competitors. Proxmire portrayed the agreement as a first
installment on revising the entire regulatory structure for financial services.
Under the conference bill, non-bank banks already in business on March 5, 1987, would be permitted to continue.
But they would not be allowed to expand their services, and their annual asset growth rate would be limited to 7
percent — a far cry from the experience of some firms, which had doubled their assets in a year.
Several attempts to either kill the grandfathering provision or tighten the growth cap were made by Rep. Kaptur.
Meanwhile, Rep. Barnard tried to loosen the growth-rate limits. Both Kaptur's and Barnard's efforts were rejected by
House conferees.
On the other side of the ledger, the conference agreed to disallow banks' efforts to enter non-traditional lines of
business: real estate, insurance and securities underwriting.
The limitation on banks' powers was made retroactive from March 6; but, unlike the limits on non-bank banks, it was
to expire as of March 1, 1988. Barnard and others tried to make the restrictions on non-banks temporary but were
defeated on narrow votes among the House conferees.
During the conference, both Proxmire and St Germain indicated they would be willing to raise the FSLIC funding
level as high as $10 billion. But many conferees were also responsive to pleas from the savings and loan industry
7/3/09 11:48 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 11 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal87-1144200&type=hitlist&num=15
level as high as $10 billion. But many conferees were also responsive to pleas from the savings and loan industry
itself, which said the higher assessments associated with a larger fund would damage fragile thrifts and unduly
punish the solvent ones.
Ultimately, the House conferees voted down a bid by Rep. Leach to raise the funding level to $10 billion, temporarily
accepting the $7.5 billion Senate level. On the final day, conferees added an additional $1 billion and dropped the
requirement — previously included in both bills — that FSLIC raise and spend the money within two years.
The conferees backed into the extra $1 billion after agreeing to let certain, older thrifts take a credit, worth about
$800 million, for contributions they had made to a secondary FSLIC fund that was phased out in 1973.
The forbearance provisions were also rewritten in conference, primarily by two Texas Republicans: Sen. Gramm,
who offered a detailed set of provisions on behalf of Senate conferees, and Rep. Bartlett.
The forbearance feature permitted a thrift to operate with a lower margin of net worth than the Federal Home Loan
Bank Board normally required, one-half of 1 percent instead of 3 percent of total assets.
But such institutions had to be deemed to have been “well-managed and viable” institutions that had been victimized
by plunging prices in energy or agriculture. The Federal Home Loan Bank Board would decide where these criteria
would apply.
The bill also included similar liberalization of treatment for minority-owned institutions. Gramm objected to this,
saying two institutions in the same geographical area should not be treated differently on the basis of their owners'
race. St Germain responded that the minority provision was “an essential element of the legislation in the eyes of
the [House] Rules Committee.” Gramm pressed the minority-forbearance issue to a vote among the Senate
conferees and was defeated, 4–7.
The conferees rejected another provision urged by consumer advocates that would have required the cashing of
government checks for any bearer who could show identification. Financial institutions generally refuse to cash
checks for non-customers without a credit check.
The conferees also:
Agreed to prohibit thrifts from leaving FSLIC for a period of one year after the bill's enactment, so that the fund would
not be impoverished by a sudden exodus of participants. The agreement also set fees for thrifts that exited after the
one-year prohibition ended. These fees would be equal to twice the thrifts' normal federal insurance premium for the exit
year and twice their assessment for the FSLIC refinancing. At Garn's insistence, the conferees exempted ailing thrifts
that were being acquired by other institutions.
Agreed to a special definition for agricultural banks and a special provision by which such banks could amortize over
seven years their loan losses on certain agricultural assets.
Averting a Veto
Treasury Department officials renewed the administration's veto threat after the five-day conference concluded,
saying they saw nothing in the final agreement that fundamentally improved the measures approved by the House
and Senate.
But on July 29, Reagan reversed field after Baker had negotiated a fatter refinancing package for FSLIC and two
smaller modifications to the House-Senate conference agreement of July 1. Baker reached his understanding with
the Banking committees' Democratic chairmen and ranking Republican members through a series of telephone calls
and quiet meetings.
When word came that Reagan had agreed, Proxmire and St Germain hastily convened the conferees to perform
emergency surgery on their own conference report. Despite grumbling by a number of members who thought the
issues had been closed, conferees agreed to the modified report by votes of 9-1 among the senators and 13-8
among the House members.
The forbearance rules remained in the bill, but Proxmire and St Germain agreed to eliminate most of them after the
FSLIC funding mechanism had run its course, in about three to five years.
The deal that smoothed final passage was hailed by a variety of lobbying groups representing consumers, small
businesses, the securities industry and most banks. But the biggest backer of the initial conference version, the U.S.
League of Savings Institutions, refused to endorse the final product — calling it “a backroom deal” and “a 16th round
in a 15-round fight.” After attempting to block the deal, however, the League said it would not oppose final passage
on the House or Senate floor.
Still opposed to the bill, despite the late changes, were retailers and others operating non-bank banks and big
money-center banks eager to expand into new financial fields.
But the White House, which was contemplating vetoes of other bills more central to its interests, was seen as
unwilling to risk a debilitating defeat on so complicated and volatile an issue. For their part, Proxmire and St
Germain were loath to hazard their broad regulatory initiative if relatively minor changes would assure enactment.
Finally, all parties seemed to fear that a well-publicized veto and attempted override might cause many depositors to
7/3/09 11:48 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 12 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal87-1144200&type=hitlist&num=15
Finally, all parties seemed to fear that a well-publicized veto and attempted override might cause many depositors to
lose confidence in their savings institutions, seriously damaging the system and inflicting political wounds on all
involved.
Because the conference report broke new ground, beyond the scope of either the House or Senate's original bills, it
was vulnerable to a point of order on the House floor. St Germain appealed to the Rules Committee for a waiver of
this and other procedural points that might have deterred final passage. In the end, the Rules Committee granted
the waivers on a voice vote.
The House adopted the conference report Aug. 3 by a vote of 382-12. The Senate followed suit Aug. 4, 96-2. (Vote
294, p. 88-H; Vote 226, p. 41-S)
Document Citation
"Fears About S&L Insurance Fund Spur Rescue." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal87-1144200.
Originally published in CQ Almanac 1987 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1988).
http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal87-1144200 (accessed July 3, 2009).
Document ID: cqal87-1144200
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal87-1144200
© 1988, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
