7/3/09 12:27 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110000&type=hitlist&num=1
Banking
1998 Congress Clears Legislation
Allowing Credit Unions To Expand
Membership
1995 House Shelves Banking Overhaul
1994 Other Banking Legislation
Considered in 1994
1994 Community Development Banking
Provisions
1994 Banking Law Undergoes Revision
1991 Congress Clears Slimmed-Down
Banking Bill
1991 Banking Nominations
1988 Caught in Turf Battle, Bank
Powers Bill Dies
1986 Major Banking Legislation Stalls
in Last Hours
1985 Banking Bills Fail to Reach House
Floor
1979 Banking Deregulation
1978 Electronic Banking Services
1978 Banking Regulation
1976 Banking Changes Blocked
1975 Senate Approves Broader Banking
Powers
1974 Citicorp Notes
1974 Banking Insurance, Credit Bill
Cleared
1970 Regulation Extended to One-
Bank Holding Companies
1969 Bank Holding Companies
1967 Truth-In-Lending Bill Passed by
Senate
1966 Bank Supervision
1966 Bank Holding Company Act
Exemptions Changed
1965 Bank Investigation
1957 Banking Revision
1955 Bank Companies
Antitrust
Federal Reserve
Savings and Loan Industry
Stock Market and Financial Services
Congress Clears Slimmed-Down Banking Bill
An article from CQ Almanac 1991
Document Outline
The Administration'S Plan
House Action On Hr 6
Subsequent House Action
Senate Action
Conference, Final Action
Features
Faced with a rising tide of bank failures and their natural consequence —
bankruptcy for the federal fund that protected bank depositors — Congress
moved expeditiously in 1991 to overhaul the nation's deposit insurance
system and to pump needed cash into the insurance fund.
With just hours to spare, House and Senate conferees reached agreement on
a comprehensive deposit insurance bill (S 543) on Nov. 27, following an all-
night session that concluded at dawn on the last day of the session.
Congressional aides rushed to prepare legislative language for the 437-page
bill, and as soon as they were finished, the House adopted the conference
report by voice vote. As almost the last act of the session, the Senate did
likewise by a vote of 68–15, clearing the bill for the president. (Vote 279, p.
36-S)
As enacted, S 543 (PL 102 - 242 ), gave the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (FDIC) authority to borrow up to $30 billion to cover depositor
losses in failed banks. An additional amount (roughly $45 billion) could be
borrowed to acquire assets from failed banks that would be sold later. All the
borrowing costs (including interest) were to be covered by insurance
premiums levied on banks and by the proceeds from asset sales. In addition,
the FDIC and other bank regulators were given broad new powers to prevent
banks from taking risks that would expose them to failure, and to close weak
banks before their capital was completely exhausted and their failure caused
a loss to the insurance fund. (Major provisions, p. 79)
What Congress was unable to do in 1991 was to repeal or otherwise radically
revise a half-century's worth of laws restricting the activities of the nation's
banks. President Bush had asked for such a revision, in addition to the
deposit-insurance overhaul, to make banks more profitable and less subject to
the failures that had plagued the nation's financial system.
Congress came close to agreeing with the president — much closer than in
1988, when a more limited banking law overhaul bill never even reached the
House floor. (1988 Almanac, p. 230)
The administration's proposal survived markup in the House Banking
Committee, and in many respects it also survived in the Senate Banking
Committee markup. But key elements never faced floor votes in either chamber. Deal-making intended to expedite
passage caused many controversial changes to be dropped without votes.
In the end, the broader administration effort succumbed to institutional doubts, to a serious lack of consensus
among lawmakers who wanted some change but could not agree on how much, and most importantly to pressure
from assorted interest groups that opposed wholesale change. Ironically, it was Democrats who helped lead the
administration's charge; Republicans provided key opposition.
The House voted on three separate banking bills in 1991, each progressively narrower than the first. The first two —
HR 6 and HR 2094 — were rejected by the full House. The third — HR 3768 — was passed and provided the basis
for the conference agreement that eventually cleared.
The Senate moved significantly more slowly than the House, deferring markup on its bill (S 543) until a month after
 
7/3/09 12:27 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110000&type=hitlist&num=1
The Senate moved significantly more slowly than the House, deferring markup on its bill (S 543) until a month after
the House Banking Committee approved HR 6, it's first effort. Senate floor action on S 543 did not begin until after
the House voted to kill HR 6, but it concluded within hours of the House having passed HR 3768, that chamber's
third banking bill of the year. (Comparison of House, Senate bills, p. 88)
The Administration'S Plan
The Bush administration on Feb. 5 unveiled a long-awaited plan to overhaul the nation's financial system. The
proposal was an outgrowth of the savings and loan crisis, and was ordained by the 1989 thrift salvage law (PL 101-
73), which required the Treasury Department to study the nation's deposit insurance system. Treasury used the
opportunity to propose sweeping changes in banking laws to complement deposit insurance reforms. (1989
Almanac, p. 117)
“Our banking system is under stress,” said Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady in releasing the plan. “Technology
is changing the way financial institutions do business, but our banks are hampered by out-of-date laws.”
Treasury proposed to sweep clean an array of laws that prevented banks from being owned by large commercial
conglomerates, from opening offices across state lines and from expanding into securities, insurance and other
arenas. At the same time, it proposed putting stiff new limits on deposit insurance coverage and streamlining federal
bank regulation. (Administration plan, p. 92)
There were few surprises in the 700-page administration report, “Modernizing the Financial System,” except that
Treasury officials at first brushed aside concerns that the FDIC's Bank Insurance Fund was desperately in need of
cash. The administration's initial legislative proposal ignored the FDIC's immediate problem, and only weeks later did
officials submit a plan for replenishing the fund.
Many members of Congress knew, however, that the money issue would drive the debate; it would be the engine
that could pull along a bill making other changes in the banking system.
Reserves in the Bank Insurance Fund had been declining steadily under pressure from more than 1,000 bank
failures since 1985. Every report from the FDIC, the General Accounting Office (GAO), the Congressional Budget
Office (CBO) and outside experts was more depressing than the one before: The insurance fund would be
technically insolvent by the end of 1991. A month before the administration released its plan to reform the industry,
the problem had made national headlines, with the Jan. 6 failure of the Bank of New England. That failure,
expected to cost the FDIC $2.3 billion, brought the problem home to taxpayers who were still reeling from the cost
of salvaging the savings and loan industry.
No one wanted to talk about a taxpayer bailout of the banks, and none of the proposals on the table in 1991 called
for infusion of taxpayer money. All costs were to be borne by the industry itself. But that was a difficult point to get
across, and in the face of the thrift crisis, it carried a hollow ring.
Larger banks immediately praised the administration proposal as a way to consolidate and strengthen the banking
industry. At the same time smaller banks and insurance agents, who stood to lose out to big financial
conglomerates, opposed the proposal. Consumer groups also complained, worrying about the costs and dangers
associated with banking consolidation.
The securities industry, long opposed to sharing its business with banks, called the Treasury plan “innovative,”
though in need of changes. That stance reflected the industry's weakened state, after years of riding a Wall Street
roller coaster.
But it also grew from a split in the industry's position. Despite the 1933 Glass-Steagall Act, which was supposed to
keep banks out of the securities business, bank regulators and the courts in recent years had allowed banks to
make inroads into both securities dealing and underwriting. Some securities firms continued to oppose repealing
Glass-Steagall, at least unless stiff new rules were imposed on actions between banks and their affiliated securities
companies. Others, however, saw an opportunity to benefit from affiliations with banks and were willing to permit the
change — but only in the context of full-blown commercial affiliations with banks, since many securities houses had
non-financial subsidiaries.
Before the year was out, however, the split in the securities industry was papered over, thanks to the efforts of John
D. Dingell, D-Mich. chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. The most outspoken and powerful
opponent of the administration's plan for change, Dingell erected the roadblocks that derailed the broader bill. And,
as he did in 1988, Dingell proved to be the most important force preventing change in the banking industry.
On the other side, there was no such central player. Except for the incipient crisis in the bank deposit insurance
fund, there was no apparent urgency driving the overhaul proposal. Members believed that they had more to lose
than to gain if they granted banks broad new powers and found that a taxpayer bailout of the insurance fund was
required somewhere down the road.
Many said at the outset that it would take a strong hands-on effort by Brady and Bush to move the plan. But such a
push did not materialize. Brady — who had a long career on Wall Street before coming to the Treasury — did take
a personal interest in the banking proposals. He briefed a roomful of reporters for an hour about the plan Feb. 5
and later that day did the same for a small group of key trade association leaders. Later, several said they were
impressed with Brady's command of the subject — if not his ideas on how to reshape their industries. (Brady's
7/3/09 12:27 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110000&type=hitlist&num=1
impressed with Brady's command of the subject — if not his ideas on how to reshape their industries. (Brady's
views, p. 94)
But Bush never really engaged on the subject. And Brady's own views seemed confused at times. During the early
markup sessions in the House, the administration refused to compromise — and it won those initial battles. But later,
it seemed that the administration was too willing to compromise and to permit unrelated issues to be linked in the
debate. One such linkage connected a proposal to allow banks to freely open branch offices across state lines with
efforts by insurance agents to roll back bank inroads into their business.
Branching was far more important to Brady and most administration officials than any other single piece of the bill,
but the linkage proved a killer. Banks that wanted branching found themselves pitted against those that wanted to
preserve their insurance sales ability; the result was that branching powers were rejected, and the insurance agents
did not win their rollback. Many proponents of the administration bill argued that had the issues not been linked,
both the branching proponents and the insurance agents could have won separate showdowns on the floor.
House Action On Hr 6
The House spent much of the year preparing for, debating and finally rejecting the broad administration proposal.
House Banking Chairman Henry B. Gonzalez, D-Texas and the panel's ranking Republican, Chalmers P. Wylie of
Ohio, each introduced deposit insurance bills on the opening day of the 102nd Congress (HR 6, HR 15). Both were
“narrow” by the standard set a month later; neither addressed the broader issues of banking law that the
administration said were so crucial. Along with Senate Banking Committee Chairman Donald W. Riegle Jr., D-Mich.
both Gonzalez and Wylie said they thought it was crucial to overhaul the deposit insurance system before making
other changes.
Two key congressional advisers shared their view: Congressional Budget Office Director Robert D. Reischauer and
Comptroller General Charles A. Bowsher, who headed the GAO. Reischauer told the Senate Banking Committee
March 5 that he generally supported the Treasury proposal, but he criticized many of its details. He, too, urged that
deposit insurance reform be in place before banks were allowed new powers, although he conceded that such
changes might provide greater long-term stability to the financial system.
That question — whether to pass a narrow deposit insurance bill first — was to dominate the banking debate all
year.
Another major issue was how to provide the necessary cash for the Bank Insurance Fund. Disagreement on that
point was one reason why the administration failed to include a financing plan in its initial reform proposal.
On Feb. 12, a week after that plan was released, a collection of banking industry groups wrote to the FDIC,
suggesting a “contingency plan” for raising the money, should the FDIC need it, without appearing to put taxpayers
at risk. The banks' plan was that the FDIC would raise up to $10 billion by selling bonds that would not be explicitly
guaranteed by the federal government (but certainly would carry an implicit guarantee). Banks would be assessed a
special premium to repay the bonds.
The proposal was deemed unsatisfactory on several grounds. It was not expected to raise enough money; the lack
of an explicit federal guarantee for the bonds would mean that they would have to pay higher interest than
government bonds with similar maturities; and the plan would have required a cap on regular bank deposit
insurance premiums, which at the time could be increased as needed by the FDIC.
FDIC Chairman L. William Seidman offered his own financing plan on Feb. 28, rejecting much of the banks'
proposal in the process. Seidman wanted to use existing FDIC authority to borrow $10 billion to be repaid through a
premium increase. And he suggested the agency get a second $20 billion line of credit with the Treasury or the
Federal Reserve, that would be secured by another, dedicated premium increase. (Seidman departure, above)
The administration finally released the text of its banking bill March 20, complete with its FDIC replenishment plan.
The Treasury plan called for the FDIC to borrow up to $25 billion from the Fed. But Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan
rejected that idea on April 23 in testimony to the Senate Banking Committee. He said the move would send the
wrong signal to world markets about the Fed's role and its independence. He added that there was no economic
benefit to borrowing from the Fed rather than from the Treasury. To provide the cash, the Fed would have to sell
part of its stock of U.S. government securities to the public, which was exactly how the Treasury would raise the
money.
Some members, such as Frank Annunzio, D-Ill. who chaired the House Banking Subcommittee on Financial
Institutions, had their own plans. Annunzio wanted banks to transfer 1 percent of their deposits to the FDIC. That
would have provided quick cash to the agency and was the method used in the mid-1980s to shore up the deposit
insurance fund for credit unions. But it was not seen as a permanent solution, and it might have helped push over
the edge those banks with very slim profit or capital margins.
The trial balloons over how to finance a replenishment eventually burst, leaving only the idea of a loan from the
Treasury. By May, that was the informally agreed upon plan, and the only issue on the table not to be debated
again all year.
Developing a Markup Strategy
7/3/09 12:27 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110000&type=hitlist&num=1
Gonzalez and Wylie agreed April 11 to work together on a narrow banking bill that would replenish the insurance
fund and make a few changes in the deposit-insurance system in an effort to protect taxpayers and restore public
confidence. They said they would shelve for the time being the broader administration package — especially
proposals to give banks wide new investment powers and allow commercial enterprises to own banks — although
Gonzalez said he expected the committee to continue debating the proposals. Both said the urgency of providing
more money for the Bank Insurance Fund and the contentiousness of the administration's proposals made it
necessary to separate the two issues.
Wylie was never particularly enamored of the broad Treasury plan, but under pressure from Brady, he backed off
his agreement with Gonzalez within two weeks.
Key Democratic supporters of the overhaul bill, and most House Banking Committee Republicans, feared that
Gonzalez and Wylie were trying to scuttle the bigger bill altogether.
Two senior committee Democrats, Doug Barnard Jr. of Georgia and Charles E. Schumer of New York, wrote to
Bush on April 18, complaining that the sweeping reform bill “has been largely abandoned” by the White House.
Then, on April 24, Brady met with committee Republicans, in a successful attempt to keep them on board. Wylie
announced that he was not prepared to keep the bill as narrow as Gonzalez wanted. “We got off track as to where
the chairman and I started out,” Wylie said.
But the same week, Gonzalez and Annunzio introduced a new, narrow FDIC replenishment and deposit insurance
overhaul bill (HR 2094), and Annunzio said his subcommittee would begin work on it the first week of May. Gonzalez
said he wanted to stick by his narrow-bill strategy. In particular, he wanted to finish work on a banking bill before
Congress had to turn to another contentious issue — a new infusion of cash into the savings and loan salvage
operation. Gonzalez said he did not want the two issues entangled. (Thrift bailout, p. 98)
However, Schumer, Barnard and nine other Democrats signed a letter from Stephen L. Neal, D-N.C. to Annunzio,
urging that the early May markup be expanded to consider “some of the more important structural and regulatory
changes recommended by the administration.” Banking Committee Democrats — 31 of the panel's 52 members —
met May 1 and agreed not to pursue Gonzalez's single, narrow bill plan. Instead, they embraced a two-bill strategy:
They decided to support marking up a narrow bill (HR 2094) that would be held in reserve and sent to the floor only
if the committee failed to approve a broader bill by the end of June.
The scheduling agreement appeared to satisfy all sides — those who wanted to press for an early solution to the
insurance fund's problems and those who feared that enactment of a narrow bill would take the wind out of the sails
of the broad measure. Wylie praised it and said it also pleased Brady.
Banking Subcommittee Action
Action on both the broad and narrow banking bills got under way May 7 in Annunzio's Financial Institutions
Subcommittee, where HR 2094 — the narrow measure — was approved by a 34–1 vote. (The text of HR 2094 was
later to become the first title of the broader bill — HR 6).
The narrow bill, which contained a $30 billion line of credit for the FDIC with the Treasury (actually an increase from
an existing-law $5 billion line of credit), also would have made numerous changes in the deposit-insurance system;
most but not all of them were not controversial.
In addition to providing money to the FDIC, the bill, as approved in subcommittee, would have required closer
supervision of banks and quicker regulatory action against those headed for insolvency. Most significantly, it would
have altered dramatically the method used most often by the FDIC to close the books on failed banks and cover
their insured deposits. The intent was to save money by ending the practice of granting de facto 100 percent
insurance coverage in nearly every case.
The issue of de facto 100 percent insurance was part of a bigger fight over the FDIC's so-called too-big-to-fail
policy, under which some banks were deemed to be so critical to the nation's financial system that the FDIC
stepped in and covered all deposits, and often all creditors, when the bank failed. The subcommittee did not directly
address that issue in marking up HR 2094. It did strike language from the bill that would have restricted lending by
the Fed to weak banks to no more than five days in a three-month period. Opponents of too-big-to-fail argued that
Fed lending to weak banks was an integral part of that policy. But Fed Chairman Greenspan vigorously opposed
limits on the Fed's role as “lender of last resort” to the financial system.
The tough deposit insurance issues — rolling back coverage and ending too-big-to-fail — were all set aside for the
following week, when the subcommittee began work on the broader bill.
The subcommittee approved the broad bill (still in draft form) on May 23, by a vote of 36–0. It was an overwhelming
victory for the administration, which lost only one significant battle during five long days of work on the measure.
Banking industry lobbyists said they were amazed. Treasury officials beamed. And members of the subcommittee
gave Annunzio a standing ovation.
As approved by the subcommittee, the bill would have torn away an imperfect statutory barrier to banks engaging in
securities activities. It would have opened the door to indirect ownership of banks by non-bank businesses, an even
more radical idea that included allowing banks to affiliate indirectly with real estate and insurance companies. It
would have allowed banks to operate nearly unfettered across state lines. And it would have preserved existing
7/3/09 12:27 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110000&type=hitlist&num=1
would have allowed banks to operate nearly unfettered across state lines. And it would have preserved existing
deposit insurance rules for individuals, effectively allowing multiple accounts at a single institution, each insured up
to $100,000.
The latter provision was the only major instance where the subcommittee parted with the administration.
The administration wanted to roll back coverage to $100,000 per individual per bank and ultimately to restrict it to
$100,000 nationwide.
Markup began May 14 on the draft bill, modeled after the administration bill (which had been introduced March 20
as HR 1505). Left out were all the provisions involving replenishment of the Bank Insurance Fund and other deposit
insurance changes that were included in HR 2094, and that later became the first of six titles in the broader bill.
In the initial two days of markup on May 14 and 16, the Treasury lost its effort to roll back deposit insurance
coverage, and the subcommittee also refused to force credit unions to write off the 1 percent of deposits they had
paid into their deposit insurance fund.
The Treasury, however, defeated an attempt to preserve “pass-through” coverage, which allowed deposits from
huge pension funds to be fully insured. And it effectively won a battle over the right of states to allow banks to
engage in certain activities that the Treasury did not regard as risky.
During the remainder of the markup, the Treasury did even better. So did bigger banks, which won nearly every
issue they contested. They postponed a fight on affiliations between banks and commercial businesses, beat back
one effort to severely curtail their future ability to branch across state lines and preserved the bill's new securities
powers for banks with only minor changes.
Smaller banks had a mixed experience, preventing the rollback of individual deposit insurance coverage, which they
said would spark deposit flows into bigger banks, but losing on interstate branching, which they feared could have a
similar effect.
But the interstate issue was far from settled. The subcommittee soundly defeated, 12–24, an amendment by Bruce
F. Vento, D-Minn. that would have preserved states' rights to decide whether to allow banks to branch. But members
and lobbyists said the May 22 vote was hardly the last word.
Meanwhile, consumer advocates were stunned by a series of defeats in a panel that had long been supportive of
their efforts. Not only did they fail to win big gains in consumer protections imposed on bankers, they saw existing
laws rolled back. And there seemed to be little they could do to stop the juggernaut.
Consumer advocates singled out for criticism a pair of amendments by Paul E. Kanjorski, D-Pa. that they said would
have had the effect of exempting 92 percent of all banks from the central federal “anti-redlining” law, the 1977
Community Reinvestment Act that required bank regulators to rate institutions on their willingness to lend in their
communities. Banks that received low grades could be prohibited from opening branches or acquiring other banks.
Also, an amendment by Joseph P. Kennedy II, D-Mass., to require banks to cash government checks and provide
certain low-cost bank services to consumers was defeated by an overwhelming 9–27 vote May 23. A similar
amendment had been approved by the Banking Committee in 1988.
Despite numerous changes made by the subcommittee, the bill as approved preserved most key elements of the
administration's proposal. But not every battle was joined.
Foremost among the issues left untouched was that of allowing affiliation between banks and commercial firms. At
Brady's request, Jim Leach, R-Iowa withheld an amendment to delete that section of the bill. Brady met with
subcommittee Republicans on May 20 and asked that Leach refrain so as not to stifle the momentum that was
building.
Banking Committee Action
Action in the full Banking Committee got under way slowly June 19 and 20. But the following week the committee
picked up steam. On June 28, after six days of markup during which 160 amendments were considered, the panel
agreed to a broad banking overhaul bill that was little changed from the subcommittee version.
Most issues that were left untouched in subcommittee were addressed by the full panel, and there were some close
votes. But the administration bill survived largely intact. The committee agreed to send HR 6 to the House floor by a
31–20 vote, after amending Gonzalez's original narrow bill (HR 6) with the much broader language that won
acceptance in committee.
The strength of the vote reflected the feeling among many members that it was time to eliminate laws that banks
believed gave a competitive edge to securities firms and insurance companies. But many critics of the bill warned
that the margin of support was not large enough to overcome opposition from Dingell's Energy and Commerce
Committee and from other quarters.
The committee made no significant changes to the portion of the bill replenishing the Bank Insurance Fund. In
addition to giving the nearly insolvent fund more cash to close failing banks, the bill would have required regulators
to move quickly to close weakened banks before their net worth, or stockholders' equity, was completely exhausted.
7/3/09 12:27 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110000&type=hitlist&num=1
And it would have required the FDIC to use the least costly method of closing failed banks. This provision was
intended to sharply limit — if not end — the FDIC's discretion to cover uninsured depositors by selling all deposits of
a failed bank to new owners. After 1994, the bill would have ended the FDIC's ability to declare a bank too big to
fail and to protect all of its depositors despite other restrictions on the cost of resolving bank failures.
The committee showed no hesitation about the need to restructure the financial services industry. Only three years
before, the House had failed to act on a comparatively minor effort to repeal restrictions on bank activities. But in
1991, wholesale change was the order of the day in the Banking Committee.
The committee bill would have for the first time allowed banks near-unfettered opportunities to open branch offices
nationwide. It would have repealed the 58-year-old Glass-Steagall Act. And it would have for the first time in 35
years removed federal bans on bank ownership by non-banking companies, throwing open the door for companies
such as General Motors Corp. or IBM to operate a bank.
Treasury Department lobbyists, who fought off repeated assaults on the bill, prevailed at almost every turn. For
instance, Leach's amendment to strike the section permitting commercial ownership of banks failed June 26 on a
20–32 vote.
The issue of rolling back deposit insurance rose again, only to be knocked down by united bank opposition. Carroll
Hubbard Jr., D-Ky. again led the banks' charge. And by a vote of 13–37, the committee on June 27 rejected a
Gonzalez amendment to limit individuals to $100,000 of deposit insurance coverage across the banking system, plus
an additional $100,000 for pensions.
The FDIC viewed the idea as impractical to administer and a nightmare to explain. The Treasury preferred to limit
insurance to $100,000 per person per institution (plus a pension account). A Gonzalez amendment to implement the
Treasury limit was defeated 16–33 on June 28. And an amendment by Thomas R. Carper, D-Del. to phase in such a
plan over five years failed the same day on a 20–29 vote.
Bankers fought the idea hard, and they were joined by some consumer advocates. The American Association of
Retired Persons had supported retaining existing law, but AARP lobbyists were angered when Hubbard refused to
support amendments requiring banks to provide low-cost checking accounts and to cash government checks. They
stopped working in Hubbard's behalf, but their action had no noticeable effect on the outcome.
Gonzalez had one major victory, despite his inability to restrict insurance coverage. He extracted a compromise from
the Fed, which was added to the bill, that the Fed would not have free rein in the future to pump cash into weak
banks. The Fed would be able to do so but only at the risk of incurring a loss that would be passed along to
taxpayers. That was intended to give the Fed second thoughts. The change was a key element in Gonzalez's hope
to put an end to the doctrine that some banks were too big to fail.
Consumer groups that had been battered in subcommittee won a victory of sorts by reversing several subcommittee
decisions that would have substantially weakened federal anti-redlining law.
Bus loads of community activists traveled from New York, Chicago, St. Louis and other cities to Washington to sit in
during the full committee markup. Committee members received telephone calls from some mayors and others
worried that banks would use their broader powers to siphon deposit money out of communities and to make loans
across the country or overseas.
But the consumer activists still faced a wall of Republicans and a sufficient number of Democrats (including several
freshmen) to ensure their defeat. So, led by Maxine Waters, D-Calif. they began brokering a deal to strike all
subcommittee-approved amendments to the anti-redlining law — those sponsored by Kanjorski and one that
consumer groups favored. The latter, sponsored by Kennedy, would have set new standards for banks with
interstate branches. Working in the consumer advocates' favor was a threat from the House Democratic leadership
that the bill would be in jeopardy if it contained any rollback of the law.
Ultimately, Wylie joined with Gonzalez in proposing to strike the Kennedy and Kanjorski amendments. The motion to
strike was adopted June 20 on a 40–12 vote. The turn of events caught Kanjorski and some consumer advocates
— who thought they might win an up-or-down vote against him — by surprise.
The committee also abandoned an effort to restructure the maze of federal bank and thrift regulatory agencies. The
Treasury had halfheartedly backed one reorganization plan, but the subcommittee knocked it out of the bill and
substituted nothing in its place. Turf fights and an inability to cut the Gordian knot led the full committee also to
abandon the effort.
Several committee members backed a further radical change in banking law beyond those already in the bill.
Schumer and Jim Slattery, D-Kan. cosponsored an amendment that would have limited deposit insurance to so-
called core banks — which would be restricted in the amount of interest they could pay on deposits and in the size
of loans they could make. Presumably such core banks could affiliate with uninsured banks that could engage in all
manner of theretofore prohibited activities.
For many Democrats, the core bank idea provided the best hope of restricting deposit insurance coverage
sufficiently to make the other banking regulation changes in the bill palatable. But the committee rejected core
banks June 26 on a 23–28 vote. Schumer, however, said the vote was far stronger than he had hoped only weeks
earlier, and he said he would try to win passage for the proposal on the House floor.
7/3/09 12:27 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110000&type=hitlist&num=1
Lobbying Against HR 6
The Banking Committee formally reported HR 6 to the House on July 12, two weeks after it voted to approve the
bill. House Speaker Thomas S. Foley, D-Wash. then struggled to balance demands from four other committees that
wanted a crack at amending the bill with his promise to Treasury Secretary Brady that Congress would move the bill
expeditiously to limit risk to the teetering insurance fund.
On July 23, Foley announced that the Agriculture, Energy and Commerce, Judiciary, and Ways and Means
committees would each have until Sept. 27 to act on the bill, ensuring that there would be a rush to complete action
before adjournment, then set for mid-October. The deadline for the committees to report was later extended a week
until Oct. 4.
The multiple referrals were directly related to a developing opposition strategy by insurance agents, securities firms,
small banks and consumer groups, all of which were unhappy with the Banking Committee bill.
For example, the Independent Bankers Association of America, a small-bank lobbying group, pursued a wide-
ranging strategy to try to force Congress to enact a very narrow bill. It allied with consumer groups that were worried
about financial concentration and with state government officials who did not want to lose control over institutions
that operated nationwide and others.
The self-styled Main Street Coalition hoped in the House to get Energy and Commerce to roll back significantly
provisions allowing banks to affiliate broadly with commercial businesses, and especially to engage in securities and
insurance activities.
The same coalition appealed to Agriculture and Judiciary in an effort to restrain the Banking Committee bill's
provisions allowing full interstate branching.
To win support for their views in the Senate, the Independent Bankers even threw their support behind a consumer
provision in a draft bill circulated by Senate Banking Chairman Riegle that would have required banks to give low-
income customers some basic banking services, such as government check-cashing or inexpensive checking
accounts.
Energy and Commerce Action
For years, Energy and Commerce Chairman Dingell had made it clear that he opposed allowing banks to affiliate
freely with securities firms, insurance companies and non-financial businesses. Banks hoped that he might have
moderated his views in 1991 — or at least be willing to compromise. On July 10, however, Dingell gave a clear
signal that his views had changed little since he thwarted House passage of a banking overhaul bill in 1988.
“Should the federal government loosen regulatory controls on banks and allow them to enter into other financial
fields… and allow the officers and owners to have entangled, conflicting fiduciary duties?” Dingell asked during a
committee hearing on HR 6. “The best and simplest answer is no.”
Dingell also issued a sharp challenge to the Banking Committee, asking the GAO to review HR 6 to assess the
degree to which it contained special-interest provisions that contradicted its public policy aims.
It was an odd request — and patently political — since most observers marveled that the measure seemed
unusually free of special-interest items. Gonzalez fired back, urging Dingell to withdraw the request. “You are the
first to unsheathe the two-edged sword,” he wrote. The GAO review was never done.
Edward J. Markey, D-Mass. whose Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Finance was the first of two
subcommittee stops for HR 6, held a series of hearings before Congress took its monthlong August recess to allow
his members to sharply question Brady and then to allow witnesses to attack the bill.
Markey called consumer advocate Ralph Nader, an ardent foe of many elements of HR 6, to testify along with Edwin
J. Gray, the nation's top savings and loan regulator in the mid-1980s. As a regulator, Gray had attempted — largely
unsuccessfully — to rein in some practices that critics alleged helped wreck the thrift industry. He also fingered the
so-called Keating Five senators, accusing them of improperly trying to block federal investigations into the Lincoln
Savings and Loan Association in Irvine, Calif. The failure of Lincoln was projected to cost taxpayers in excess of $2
billion. Gray testified that HR 6 would lead the nation's banks down the same disastrous path taken by the thrifts.
(Keating hearings, p. 26)
After the August recess, Markey's Finance Subcommittee and the companion Subcommittee on Commerce,
Consumer Protection and Competitiveness each met Sept. 16 and rejected major portions of the reform agenda put
forth by the administration and bigger banks.
Without adopting a single controversial amendment, the Finance Subcommittee approved draft language put
forward by Markey and Dingell, focusing chiefly on securities issues. The subcommittee bill would have allowed
banks and securities firms to join forces, but only under the most restricted of ways.
The only controversial amendment involved a section of the Markey-Dingell draft that would have prevented banks
from affiliating with non-banking companies — by retaining existing law that severely restricted bank ownership.
Matthew J. Rinaldo, R-N.J. objected that the ban on affiliations between banks and commercial companies was no
7/3/09 12:27 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110000&type=hitlist&num=1
longer necessary. He proposed that non-banking businesses be allowed at least to buy failing banks — to bring new
capital to the banking industry and save the deposit insurance fund from paying to close some failed banks.
Markey said the amendment would be “more than the camel's nose under the tent,” and Dingell said no commercial
business would buy a bank under those circumstances “except for the most corrupt motives.” The amendment was
defeated on an 11–15 party-line vote, with only one Democrat, Rick Boucher of Virginia, voting for it.
The Competitiveness Subcommittee approved language drafted by Chairman Cardiss Collins, D-Ill. that was mostly
intended to limit banks' ability to get into the insurance business, in the process rolling back opportunities for banks
that were permitted by existing law.
Both subcommittees approved their versions of HR 6 by voice vote.
The full Energy and Commerce Committee met Sept. 25 and on a 29–12 vote ratified nearly all the actions of the
two subcommittees.
Particularly galling to bankers were the high fire walls that Energy and Commerce wanted to erect to restrict financial
connections between a bank and its securities affiliate.
But Energy and Commerce members agreed to mute a key fire wall provision approved in subcommittee that would
have virtually ensured that a securities firm affiliated with a bank would get little business from companies that were
customers of the bank. The change agreed to by the full committee would have preserved opportunities for a bank
to lend to a commercial customer while the bank's securities affiliate underwrote stock or bond offerings for the
same company.
For some bankers, that was the whole point: They wanted to be able to satisfy their customers' demands for non-
bank financial services but not lose any existing business.
An amendment, offered by James H. Scheuer, D-N.Y. and approved by voice vote, would have permitted a bank to
lend to an established customer that was also a client of its securities affiliate for a period of 60 days before, or 90
days after, the securities firm underwrote a stock or bond offering for the client. The subcommittee bill would have
banned such loans. The provision had been the subject of more than a week of negotiations between several big
banks and securities firms, and final language was not agreed upon until a few hours before the markup.
Committee Republicans made a final attempt to win permission for non-banking companies to own banks. Rinaldo
offered an amendment similar to one defeated a week earlier in subcommittee that would have allowed any
company to buy a failing bank. It was defeated on a party-line, 15–26 vote.
Supporters of Rinaldo's amendment argued that the wall between banking and commerce had already been
breached in three places. Commercial companies could buy savings and loans. Some commercial giants owned so-
called non-bank banks, which had deposit insurance but were not subject to laws restricting affiliations between
banks and other businesses. These affiliations had slipped through a loophole in the Bank Holding Company Act
that was closed in August 1987. And existing law permitted foreign commercial companies that owned banks abroad
to own U.S. banks, although the Energy and Commerce bill would have changed that.
In fact, the Dingell-Markey version of the bill retained House Banking Committee language that would have permitted
further exploitation of the non-bank bank loophole: It would have allowed existing non-bank banks to buy thrifts and
avoid an existing-law cap on their growth. And the bill would only apply its new stringent fire walls to banks, not to
non-banks or thrifts.
Markey said he focused primarily on curtailing provisions in the Banking Committee bill, not rolling back existing law.
“That's where we put our political capital,” he said, insisting that he was trying to prevent a bigger breach in the wall
between banking and commerce. He denied administration charges that his bill catered to special interests by
permitting existing loopholes to remain. “We tried not to let the perfect be the enemy of the good,” Markey said.
Agriculture Action
The Agriculture Committee also met Sept. 25, in the process handing smaller banks and consumer groups a victory
by taking a swipe at the interstate branching provisions of HR 6.
The Agriculture Committee had sought referral of the bill on the basis of narrow but serious concerns about a series
of provisions relating to failed banks and their role in the settlement of contracts for future delivery of commodities,
according to a July 23 letter to Foley from Chairman E. “Kika” de la Garza, D-Texas.
But by the time the panel met, concerns about branching had attracted the attention of committee members, who
expressed fears that nationwide branching by large banks might reduce competition in rural areas and shrink the
amount of credit available to farmers. The committee adopted an amendment to HR 6 that would have forced federal
regulators to review the lending operations of interstate branches under certain conditions, to ensure that deposits
were not being siphoned out of rural areas. Approval of the amendment was by an 11–10 show-of-hands vote, with
de la Garza providing the deciding vote, following several hours of debate. De la Garza had worried that the
amendment trod on Banking Committee jurisdiction.
Sponsored by Glenn English, D-Okla. the amendment would have allowed bank regulators to close a rural branch of
an out-of-state bank if it were shown that the branch was not meeting the credit needs of the region it served. A
7/3/09 12:27 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 9 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110000&type=hitlist&num=1
an out-of-state bank if it were shown that the branch was not meeting the credit needs of the region it served. A
review of lending activities would be triggered if the loan total as a percentage of deposits was less than half the
statewide average.
The committee also adopted by voice vote two relatively non-controversial amendments. One was to a portion of the
bill aimed at ensuring that a failing bank would not escape obligations to cover losses at the same time it collected
on gains from such trades. The other would have provided so-called pass-through deposit insurance coverage to
futures contract brokers who deposited their clients' money in a bank during settlement procedures. The deposits,
though nominally in the name of the broker, were to carry deposit insurance of up to $100,000 for each client.
Judiciary Action
Despite pressure from small banks and consumer groups to wade into the branching issue, the Judiciary Committee
agreed when it met Oct. 3 to approve two relatively narrow amendments to HR 6.
By voice vote the committee approved an amendment that was described as an effort to navigate between the
Banking and Energy and Commerce panels on the question of preventing banks from “tying” their services to those
provided by non-banking affiliates.
The panel also voted 27–5 to adopt an amendment striking Banking Committee language that would have subjected
individuals who owned banks to the same conditions on ownership of non-banking companies that applied to
corporate owners of banks. That amendment was strongly opposed by smaller banks. Despite their opposition to big
banking conglomerates, many small-bank owners also owned small-town real estate, insurance or other businesses.
Big-bank critics hoped that Judiciary Chairman Jack Brooks, D-Texas would use his panel's jurisdiction over antitrust
matters to restrain interstate branching. But Brooks did not seem interested.
Small banks and consumer advocates, in raising the specter of massive consolidation of the banking industry,
complained that after NCNB Corp. of North Carolina bought the failed First RepublicBank system in Texas in 1988,
NCNB had siphoned money out of the state. Brooks, who owned a major interest in several smaller Texas banks,
said that he was not personally aware of problems with NCNB in Texas and that such matters were the province of
the Banking Committee, not his.
Ways and Means Action
Ways and Means was the only committee to adopt amendments that would not change the banking regulatory core
of the bill. The committee's interest was chiefly in a provision of HR 6 that would have allowed the FDIC to raise
cash by selling bonds to banks — instead of by borrowing from the Treasury.
Ways and Means met Sept. 25 and adopted two amendments to HR 6, both by voice vote.
One would have required that bonds sold to commercial banks as a means to recapitalize the deposit insurance
fund would have to pay interest at Treasury bond rates and be subject to statutory caps on borrowing by the FDIC
and the government as a whole. The other was intended to ensure that changes in bank ownership and activities
contemplated by the bill would not affect existing tax treatment of banks and the companies that owned them.
Without the change, Ways and Means was concerned that somewhat more-generous tax provisions that applied to
banks but not other corporations could result in a slight revenue loss to the Treasury.
Seeking a Compromise
As other committees weighed in and pressure mounted against the Banking Committee version of HR 6, Gonzalez
repeatedly lashed out at the wide scope of his panel's bill and at the delay that had effectively halted action since
his committee acted at the end of June. Gonzalez also complained that Brady had backed away from the pressure
he had put on Congress earlier in the year to act to replenish the insurance fund.
“It is my responsibility to say… that the majority [of the committee], the industry and its spokesmen, and the
secretary of the Treasury, in particular, are playing craps with the safety and soundness of the system,” Gonzalez
said July 24. “The fund is broke, and I don't see why anyone wants to kid themselves.”
After Energy and Commerce had taken steps to thwart the Banking Committee's intent, members of that panel met
to decide whether to go forward or to retreat to the narrow-bill approach long advocated by Gonzalez. Banking
Committee Democrats informally agreed at a two-hour closed-door caucus Oct. 3, to press forward with HR 6.
Some Democrats on the committee joined Gonzalez in opposition to its broad sweep; others said they would have
preferred a narrow bill to avoid a bloody showdown on the floor and to expedite action on replenishing the
insurance fund. But most wanted to press ahead. The action allied a majority of the panel's Democrats with a nearly
united phalanx of House Republicans and with the administration in preparation for the upcoming floor fight.
Wylie, ranking Republican on the Banking Committee, said Bush had strongly urged support for HR 6 at a private
White House meeting Sept. 24. At a House GOP caucus Oct. 2, said Wylie, no one objected to his suggestion that
they press for passage of the bill. He said he had dropped his personal opposition to allowing commercial
companies to own banks because Bush had argued in favor of retaining that provision.
The jockeying for position between supporters and opponents of HR 6 continued well into October, but the die was
cast the week of Oct. 21, when Gonzalez struck a deal with Dingell that undermined the position of his committee
colleagues. In essence, Gonzalez agreed to a substitute for the key title of the bill governing bank affiliations with
7/3/09 12:27 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 10 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110000&type=hitlist&num=1
colleagues. In essence, Gonzalez agreed to a substitute for the key title of the bill governing bank affiliations with
securities, insurance and commercial companies.
Aside from issues of substance that had arisen in disputes between the Banking panel and Energy and Commerce,
there were also concerns about turf. Banking members were upset that Energy and Commerce had to be given
such broad jurisdiction over bank matters, and they were worried that Energy and Commerce would expand that
jurisdictional grab as time passed.
The deal between Gonzalez and Dingell appeared to give the Energy and Commerce Committee a victory on
substance but not on jurisdiction.
The compromise would not have permitted commercial companies to own banks; it would have imposed higher and
thicker fire walls than those in the Banking Committee version of HR 6; and in most instances, the insurance sales
activities of banks would have been more severely limited than they were in the Banking Committee version or
existing law. At the same time, Dingell dropped demands for new regulation of banks by the Securities and
Exchange Commission that would have enhanced his panel's jurisdiction over the banking industry, and he signed a
memorandum of understanding to the effect that his committee would not gain jurisdiction.
For obvious reasons, the Gonzalez-Dingell deal angered big banks and left them wondering what strategy to pursue
as the bill moved forward. It pleased smaller banks and the insurance industry. Brady said the compromise “turns
back the clock” on bank powers. But his strong opposition to the deal did not stop behind-the-scenes negotiations
aimed at getting a bill passed.
The deal did not directly affect language in the bill permitting banks to open branch offices across state lines.
However, administration officials began quietly agreeing to accept restrictions on interstate branching because they
feared the whole bill was sinking. Some big banks and their congressional allies began promoting a strategy to
knock the bank affiliations title out of the bill altogether. They hoped to preserve interstate branching and at the
same time to continue wearing away at legal restrictions on securities and insurance activities through regulatory
changes and court decisions. The strategies pursued by big banks and by the administration eventually collided —
when interstate branching became inextricably linked to securities and insurance powers.
HR 6 Floor Defeat
Concern had been building for weeks that with a pre-Thanksgiving adjournment target looming and no Senate floor
action yet on a banking bill, Congress might quit for the year without shoring up the insurance fund. The Gonzalez-
Dingell compromise cleared the way for House floor action beginning Oct. 30 — even if it did not please all parties.
In the end, the deal did not come close to helping pass the bill. During four days on the floor, HR 6 barely survived
two procedural votes that would have killed it. Then it was overwhelmingly rejected on Nov. 4 by a vote of 89–324.
(Vote 375, p. 92–H)
The Rules Committee began meeting on the bill Oct. 29, the same day Bush issued a veto threat because of the
changes in the Gonzalez-Dingell deal. The House Democratic leadership was split on the issue: Foley had promised
Brady to move the bill to the floor, though he had not guaranteed what would happen there; Majority Leader Richard
A. Gephardt, D-Mo. and others plainly preferred Dingell's vision of banking reform to that in the Banking Committee
version of HR 6.
Both parties held caucuses the morning of Oct. 30, but neither meeting seemed to clear the air or instill a sense of
confidence in what the House was about to do. Members of both parties became increasingly uneasy — and were
vocal in their lack of confidence in the bill.
The Democratic gathering was sparsely attended, and members who were present said most of the participants
were from the Banking and Energy and Commerce committees and were well-versed in the issues. There was no
effort to get the caucus to express a point of view on any of the issues raised by the bill, members said.
Republicans met with Brady, who made a strong pitch for the bill as approved by the Banking Committee. Brady got
“a cordial and sympathetic reception,” said Dick Armey, R-Texas who had voted against the bill during Banking
Committee deliberations. Another Banking Committee member, Marge Roukema, R-N.J. said, “I don't know if they
don't want to talk about it, or if it's too complicated.
The Rules Committee then had difficulty deciding how to structure debate on the bill. Two rules were crafted. The
first allowed the House to begin debate Oct. 30 but gave no instructions about what amendments would be allowed.
After a day of closed-door maneuverings, Rules agreed late in the evening of Oct. 30 to a second rule that
permitted the House to consider only 24 of 78 amendments that members wanted to offer.
Rules took one action that particularly offended many members: It dropped the Banking Committee's version of the
bank affiliations title — and substituted the Gonzalez-Dingell compromise. Further compounding the anger directed
at Rules, the committee refused to let the full House even consider the Banking Committee's original language.
Though many of its proponents conceded that the original version could not have prevailed on the floor, it became a
matter of principle that they should have had their shot.
Rules also disregarded the interstate branching amendment adopted in the Agriculture Committee; the Ways and
Means amendments were incorporated into the bill, as were the futures trading amendments adopted by Agriculture.
The anti-tying language adopted by Judiciary was subsumed in the Gonzalez-Dingell compromise.
When the House took up the second rule on Oct. 31, an angry phalanx of 153 Republicans, joined by 54 pro- and
7/3/09 12:27 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 11 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110000&type=hitlist&num=1
When the House took up the second rule on Oct. 31, an angry phalanx of 153 Republicans, joined by 54 pro- and
anti-bank Democrats and independent Bernard Sanders of Vermont, nearly defeated it. That would have sidetracked
the measure at least temporarily — and some suspected permanently. Several members switched at the end; at
one point after time for the vote had run out, the electronic vote-tally board in the House chamber showed the rule
losing 208–209. The final vote was 210–208. (Vote 358, p. 88–H)
Eight Republicans joined 202 Democrats to support the rule. But it took Foley to corral the necessary votes. He
personally worked the floor, persuading Barnard and Minority Leader Robert H. Michel, R-Ill. to vote yes, despite their
opposition. (Both the administration and Barnard had been given permission to offer every amendment they sought.)
Barnard's support was tempered by a blistering floor speech in which he attacked the Democratic leadership for
trampling over the Banking Committee's work. “I hate to say this about my leadership, but this is dastardly,” Barnard
said.
House GOP Whip Newt Gingrich of Georgia decided late Oct. 30 to try to defeat the rule, after sensing growing
opposition to the Gonzalez-Dingell compromise. But, although the administration had issued a veto threat over the
compromise, the White House declined to support his effort. Had it done so, Gingrich almost certainly would have
prevailed. A Treasury official refused to discuss the matter. But all along the administration had made compromises
in order to retain as much as possible of what it had originally sought.
The crucial vote on Oct. 31 came on Barnard's amendment to strike the Gonzalez-Dingell bank-powers language
from the bill.
For years, Barnard had been the leading House supporter of allowing new investment and affiliation powers for
banking companies. However, the restrictions contained in the compromise persuaded him that the best course
would be to have nothing in the bill on that subject.
But Barnard could not overcome Dingell, who warned that without the sorts of safeguards contained in his version
of the bill, “rapacious scoundrels” — a favored term for greedy financiers — will engage in “rascality” that will
threaten the financial system and taxpayers. The amendment to strike the Gonzalez-Dingell compromise was
defeated 200–216, with 28 Republicans joining Dingell, and 70 Democrats joining Barnard. (Vote 362, p. 88–H)
That outcome led directly to a Nov. 1 vote to abort the bill. Republicans tried a rare tactic of amending the bill to
strike its enacting clause — in effect neutering it. At best the move would have sent the bill back to committee, and
it might have killed it. But Democratic leaders enforced party discipline on the vote, and only Barnard and Carper —
out of scores of sympathetic Democrats — voted with the Republicans. The motion failed 158–243. (Vote 364, p.
88–H)
Shortly after that vote, which came on a Friday, the bill was shelved until Monday, Nov. 4.
For a time, the House leadership urged members to vote for passage to keep the legislative process moving, with a
near certainty that the bill would be changed in conference. Noting that a sizable majority of Democrats had voted to
retain the controversial Gonzalez-Dingell compromise and that there would be few Republican votes for final
passage, leadership aides tried to make the vote an issue of party loyalty — as they had on the Friday motion to
strike the enacting clause.
It didn't work this time, and by midafternoon Nov. 4, it was hard to find a member who planned to back the bill on
final passage. The effort to whip up support fizzled, and HR 6 was defeated overwhelmingly that evening, 89–324.
Almost all the support came from Democrats — much of it from committee chairmen, members of the leadership and
members of Banking and Energy and Commerce. Even then, only 12 of 31 Banking Committee Democrats and 17 of
27 Energy and Commerce Democrats voted for the bill.
During debate on the bill, the House approved one key amendment that had failed to win committee approval and
rejected several others:
By a vote of 366–4, the House agreed to a Vento interstate branching amendment to give state legislatures three years
in which to vote to “opt out” of allowing out-of-state banks to open branch offices within their borders. At the same time,
the House rejected, 142–250, a much more tightly drawn “opt-in” amendment and refused by 20–374 to strike the entire
interstate branching section from the bill.  A similar Vento amendment had been rejected in a Banking subcommittee, but
the floor amendment was incorporated into HR 2094, a subsequent banking bill that was sent to the House just after the
defeat of HR 6. (Votes 367, 368, 369, p. 90-H)
By a vote of 153–264, the House rejected Wylie's amendment to roll back deposit-insurance coverage to $100,000 per
person, per bank (with provision for a second $100,000 insured account for a pension plan). Similar amendments had
been rejected in committee. (Vote 372, p. 90–H)
By a vote of 106–312, the House rejected Schumer's core bank proposal that had failed in committee. (Vote 361, p. 88–
H)
By a vote of 137–272, the House rejected Rinaldo's amendment to permit commercial companies to buy failing banks,
which had failed in committee. (Vote 363, p. 88–H)
By a vote of 152–241, the House rejected a Kennedy amendment that would have imposed stiff new “fair lending”
restrictions on banks, requiring them to develop plans to lend to minorities where data showed a disparity in their lending
habits. The amendment had been given a boost by an Oct. 21 Federal Reserve report showing that poor whites were
7/3/09 12:27 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 12 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110000&type=hitlist&num=1
habits. The amendment had been given a boost by an Oct. 21 Federal Reserve report showing that poor whites were
more likely to be granted mortgages than well-to-do blacks. But, opposed by most banks and the administration, and
possibly tarred by the fights over unrelated issues in the bill,  the amendment failed. (Vote 366, p. 88–H)
Subsequent House Action
Following the defeat of HR 6, supporters of broad changes in banking law began scrambling to preservá as much of
the bill as possible. In the weeks leading up to the floor vote on HR 6, the administration had given up much of its
overhaul plan.
Following the overwhelming vote on HR 6, Treasury Secretary Brady conceded that Congress would not agree in
1991 to allow commercial companies to own banks or to allow banks to affiliate with securities firms. (The Senate bill
never included the former provision and the latter was dropped unceremoniously from the Senate bill after the
House vote on HR 6.)
Interstate branching was the last remaining major piece of the package. It was still in the Senate bill — and Brady
was not yet of a mind to give that up, even though most of the banking industry had. The fight in the House then
became one over how to preserve interstate branching.
As a result, the House walked the plank on a second banking bill (HR 2094) that was amended on the floor to
permit interstate branching. That bill was defeated Nov. 14, by a vote of 191–227. (Vote 399, p. 96–H)
Finally, a very narrow bill (HR 3768) aimed solely at overhauling the deposit-insurance system and replenishing the
insurance fund passed overwhelmingly — 344–84. (Vote 415, p. 100–H)
Committee Action on HR 2094
Two days after HR 6 was rejected, the House Banking Committee quickly met to send HR 2094 to the floor. The bill
had been held in abeyance since it was marked up in subcommittee the first week of May.
The committee voted somewhat reluctantly to discard almost all that was in the first bill, retaining only those
provisions designed to keep the deposit-insurance system afloat. An amended version of HR 2094 contained the
first of six titles in HR 6. But in that form, the bill was plainly too narrow for anyone's taste and stood no chance of
passage.
The committee met Nov. 6 and, at the insistence of Gonzalez, kept the bill very narrow. As approved by the
committee, the bill would have provided the FDIC with a $30 billion line of credit with the Treasury; it would have
permitted regulators to close failing banks before they were completely insolvent; and it would have largely closed
the too-big-to-fail loophole that resulted in protection for uninsured depositors when very large banks failed.
Wylie supported Gonzalez's request to fight off all other amendments to HR 2094 but said he would fight hard to
permit interstate branching when the bill reached the floor.
Their agreement effectively prevented a revolt that could have loaded the bill down so that it was not very different
from HR 6. But many Democrats objected that the result was the loss of other, mostly non-controversial changes in
banking law — beyond the broad questions of powers and branching — that had been included in HR 6.
“I have serious reservations,” said Peter Hoagland, D-Neb. “We're emasculating our jurisdiction. What's the point of
sitting on this committee if we're not going to make decisions in this room?”
Al McCandless, R-Calif. then moved to pre-empt further amendments by ordering an up-or-down vote on the bill. His
motion carried narrowly, 28–24. The committee then approved the narrow bill, 37–15. In both cases, there were
large blocks of Republicans and Democrats voting on each side.
Floor Action on HR 2094
Following the committee action, it was plain that the interstate branching issue was not dead. So House leaders
held lengthy negotiations among members, interest groups and administration officials over how to structure floor
amendments to win support for the measure.
Gonzalez, who had wanted the narrowest possible banking bill all year long, washed his hands of the process. “It's
out of our control — out of mine,” he told his Banking colleagues Nov. 6. “It's what the leadership wants to do.”
Vote-counting, not careful consideration of public policy, drove the backroom discussions, particularly since it was
widely believed that at least 100 — and maybe many more — of the 267 Democrats in the House would vote
against anything related to a banking bill. Evidence of that was clear in the 16 roll call votes taken during floor
action on HR 6. With the sole exception of a vote to curtail banks' ability to open branch offices across state lines
and one procedural vote that Foley personally lobbied, huge numbers of Democrats consistently voted no. That
included votes on amendments promoting bread-and-butter party issues such as prohibiting discrimination in bank
lending and other consumer protections.
Moreover, it was difficult to find the right mixture of policy choices that could hold a majority of those who were not
automatic no votes. That was especially important if the bill was to get any Republican support. Many members
wanted to help banks expand their businesses. They were in conflict with those defending the securities and
7/3/09 12:27 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 13 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110000&type=hitlist&num=1
wanted to help banks expand their businesses. They were in conflict with those defending the securities and
insurance industries from encroachment by banks. And they were opposed by members who feared concentration of
the financial services industry and increased risk to the deposit insurance system from increased bank powers.
As Schumer put it: “You can do a narrow bill, but Republicans won't vote for it without interstate branching. If you
do interstate, people want insurance restrictions. If you do insurance, the securities industry wants a moratorium [on
new powers]. People fall off with every addition. It's one big mess.”
Administration officials said Nov. 7 that they would insist that any bill allow banks to operate freely across state lines,
but they signaled a willingness to accept some restraints that might be imposed by the states. They also said they
would not accept a moratorium that would prevent federal regulators from granting new powers to banks. Such a
moratorium was put in place for one year in 1987; since it was lifted in 1988, the Federal Reserve Board and other
regulators had expanded the authority of banks to affiliate in limited ways with securities firms.
But the administration negotiated with some bankers and with insurance agents to craft a compromise that would
put restrictions on the existing ability of some banks to sell insurance across state lines.
The negotiations eventually yielded two substantive floor amendments, which were made in order by the Rules
Committee. House leaders and administration officials crossed their fingers that when the bill came to the floor Nov.
14, their careful vote-counting would pay off.
One amendment, which was non-controversial and was approved by voice vote, restored a variety of banking law
reforms that the committee had thrown overboard in its effort to craft the narrowest possible bill.
The other, offered by Wylie, allowed interstate branching but rolled back some existing bank powers to sell
insurance and sealed forever a closed window for banks to operate real estate brokerages. Although insurance and
real estate agents often appeared invincible on Capitol Hill, they were able to muster only the barest majority for the
amendment. It was adopted 210–208, after Dennis Hastert, R-Ill. switched to vote yes. (Vote 398, p. 96–H)
An odd coalition then formed to kill the measure. Virtually the entire banking industry opposed the bill, joined by
many of the banks' sharpest critics, including consumer groups and securities firms that did not want banks invading
their turf. Insurance and real estate agents, together with a few regional banks and administration allies, did not
have enough muscle to win passage. Foley and the House Democratic leadership put on a mild effort to whip up
support for the bill, but less than a third of House Democrats voted yes. At the same time, nearly a third of House
Republicans voted no, despite a personal appeal by President Bush. The bill failed 191–227. (Vote 399, p. 96–H)
Committee and Floor Action on HR 3768
With the defeat of a second major banking bill in little more than a week, it was clear to House leaders that only a
narrow bill could win support on the floor. Administration officials reluctantly conceded the point.
The Banking Committee met Nov. 19 and approved HR 3768 by a vote of 44–7. The bill as introduced was virtually
identical to the version of HR 2094 that was rejected — including the non-controversial floor amendment on banking
regulation but not including the Wylie interstate branching amendment. The markup did not go as swiftly as hoped,
however, and Gonzalez, in league with Wylie, fought off several amendments.
The Rules Committee met the following day and agreed to allow no amendments on the floor.
Floor debate Nov. 21 was largely desultory and almost entirely in support of the bill — though little of it was
enthusiastic. Gephardt drew polite applause with a defense of the bill and the deposit-insurance system generally,
but there was none of the usual self-congratulation that accompanied passage of a major bill. Gerald B. H. Solomon,
R-N.Y. an ally of the insurance agents, was the only member to forcefully oppose the bill. Solomon, a member of
the Rules Committee, was denied the chance to offer a floor amendment roiling back bank insurance powers.
Before the final vote, the House rejected 74–355 a procedural motion offered by Armey that would have had the
effect of adding a frequently rejected amendment to pare back deposit-insurance coverage to a single $100,000
account per person per bank. The House then passed the bill 344–84. (Votes 414, 415, p. 100-H)
Senate Action
For much of the year, action in the Senate was confined to closed-door negotiations intended to satisfy a majority of
the 21 members of the Banking Committee — and the banking, securities, insurance, consumer and administration
interests that they represented.
Many of the same battles that were waged publicly in the House were also fought in the Senate — only in private.
Formal action in the Senate lagged the House all year long, and as the House moved progressively toward a
narrower bill, Senate deliberations did likewise.
Riegle was the leading advocate in the Senate of moving slowly: first replenishing the insurance fund, then
overhauling the deposit-insurance system generally, and only later lifting limits on banking in a significant way. He
had introduced a deposit-insurance bill (S 3103) in late 1990 that served as an early model for elements of both the
administration's bill and HR 6. Riegle's 1990 bill was revised and reintroduced in 1991 as S 543.
However, Riegle abandoned his narrow-bill approach under pressure from members of both parties who wanted to
7/3/09 12:27 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 14 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110000&type=hitlist&num=1
However, Riegle abandoned his narrow-bill approach under pressure from members of both parties who wanted to
broaden the measure, in particular to permit interstate branching and to repeal Glass-Steagall. Thus he spent much
of the spring and early summer in consultation with his committee members, trying to find a combination of
provisions that would appeal to a majority in committee and on the floor.
By mid-July, the consultations had gone as far as they could without submitting some contentious issues to votes in
committee. Riegle had hoped to gain the support of a majority of the panel, and especially that of the ranking
Republican on the panel, Jake Garn of Utah. But just days before Riegle finally unveiled a draft bill for markup, it
was clear that he had failed in his quest for consensus.
“There are still some issues here that need to be ventilated,” said Richard C. Shelby, D-Ala. one of several committee
members pressing for as broad a measure as possible.
Riegle released his draft bill July 16 without Garn's endorsement. It was far less bold than the administration or
House Banking versions in key areas, and it clearly reflected the pressures that were being placed on the House bill
— which was by then awaiting action in the House Energy and Commerce Committee.
Riegle's bill would not have permitted commercial companies to affiliate with banks, leaving in place existing
statutory restrictions on bank ownership. However, it would have allowed strong banks the right to affiliate with
securities firms. And it would have put stricter limits on banks seeking to branch nationwide.
On some points, the measure was similar to HR 6. Riegle's approach to requiring banking regulators to move quickly
to shut down failing banks was little changed from his 1990 bill. While there were differences in detail on that point
with HR 6, the provisions were very compatible in broad terms. Riegle's bill also would have provided the FDIC with
a $30 billion line of credit with the Treasury, but with a number of refinements, including a swifter payback schedule
and a controversial means of assessing banks for the cost.
Riegle's bill also contained a host of provisions not a part of any companion House measure, many of them
controversial. Some would have created new consumer responsibilities for banks; others would have granted so-
called lender liability protection to banks stuck with foreclosed real estate that turned out to contain toxic waste sites.
Riegle said his bill was as near to a consensus draft as could be prepared. But the measure drew immediate and
antagonistic response from the interests that won biggest in the House Banking Committee, and support from those
who had lost. “We disagree, but agreeably,” Garn said after ticking off a list of a half-dozen issues over which he
and the chairman parted company.
Administration officials were privately said to be deeply upset over parts of Riegle's bill, though publicly they were
restrained. “We think it's good that it's as comprehensive as it is,” Treasury Under Secretary Robert R. Glauber said
the day Riegle released his bill. “Obviously, there are elements we would like to see changed.” But Riegle insisted
that while changes at the margins might be acceptable, he would not support big revisions. “This bill has the items
that I, for one, think have to be there,” he said.
Opposition to the draft developed immediately within the committee. Aides to as many as 15 committee members —
representing some key Democrats as well as most Republicans — met July 17 to discuss their objections and
identify proposed changes around which members hoped to form majorities.
Garn, for example, strongly objected to tapping the deposits held in overseas branches of some of the nation's
biggest banks as a source of revenue to replenish the insurance fund. Foreign deposits were nominally not insured,
but banks would have paid special premiums on them under the Riegle bill in order to raise the cash to pay back
any money borrowed from the Treasury.
Terry Sanford, D-N.C. worked hard to relax restraints on interstate branching that were included by Riegle. Shelby
and Connie Mack, R-Fla. wanted to strike the block of consumer-oriented provisions, which were hated by banks.
And Alan J. Dixon, D-Ill. wanted to give the Federal Reserve Board more discretion to relax fire walls that the bill
would have erected to limit financial dealings between banks and their securities affiliates.
Each of these cut to the heart of what Riegle said he wanted to accomplish in the bill.
Despite the brewing objections, Riegle decided at the last minute before Congress left town for its August recess to
mark up the bill. He was afraid that delay would be dangerous to the deposit-insurance fund. But he also was
concerned that advocates of more dramatic changes in banking than those he favored might win the upper hand if
he put off the markup until September.
The decision to go forward turned up the heat on the private negotiations — and led to the resolution of some, but
not all, disputes. Democratic and Republican committee aides met throughout the week of July 22, often late into
the night; Riegle met several times with Garn, and the two settled a pair of key issues. In return for Garn's
assurance that he would not press for broad bank ownership, Riegle agreed to relax fire walls between banks and
securities firms.
Banking Committee Action
Many accommodations and some tough votes were required as the committee struggled through three long days of
markup July 31-Aug. 2. The course was slow and painful at times; the committee made virtually no decisions
through the first day and a half. But for most of the final day the committee moved through controversial
amendments at breakneck speed.
7/3/09 12:27 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 15 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110000&type=hitlist&num=1
In the last hours of markup a contentious dispute over a series of amendments that would have tightened existing
restraints on insurance activities by banks threatened to derail the process. Several were adopted, and Garn
threatened at one point to walk out and stop the markup if yet another amendment to curtail insurance activities
were offered.
In the end, the committee approved S 543 by a fairly narrow 12–9 vote. Riegle's bill suffered some bruises but
remained remarkably intact, However, the final vote reflected the feeling of liberals that the measure went too far
toward allowing banks into unchartered waters, and of conservatives that it did not go far enough.
Several Democrats — led by Paul S. Sarbanes of Maryland — not only voted against the bill but denounced it as a
mistake. “This bill is the seeds of our destruction,” Sarbanes exclaimed. “It is an assault on safety and soundness…
that will come back to haunt us in the years ahead.”
Pete V. Domenici, R-N.M. expressed the majority's feeling that the bill was an acceptable compromise. “I did not
believe three days ago we would report out a bill,” he said. “I think there is far more good than bad, and I don't think
we ought to defeat it.”
In major action, the committee made the following changes to Riegle's draft bill:
Interstate branching. As in the House, branching was one of the most important fights in the markup. And in what may
have been the first key compromise reached, members agreed to allow banking companies to begin in 1993 to cross
state lines, both to buy banks and to consolidate their multibank systems into single banks with a network of branch
offices. States, however, would have been permitted to opt-out of interstate branching by voting to do so within three
years of enactment.
Bank Insurance Fund replenishment. The committee adopted some changes in Riegle's original proposal for letting
the FDIC borrow $30 billion from the Treasury. Surviving banks would have been forced to pay special premiums over a
period of 15 years to pay off the first $10 billion borrowed to cover losses in failed banks. The committee struck a
Riegle-backed plan to assess that special premium not only against all domestic deposits — even those above
$100,000, which were nominally not covered by insurance — but also against deposits in overseas branches of U.S.
banks, which also did not carry deposit insurance. The compromise was to assess only domestic deposits.
The change was a victory for bigger banks with large amounts of foreign deposits, but smaller banks got a piece of the
deal: In the future, if the FDIC should cover foreign deposits in a failure, the cost to the fund would be charged explicitly
against those banks that held foreign deposits.
Deposit insurance overhaul. These provisions in the Riegle draft generally survived. They would have created new
procedures for closing failing banks before they were completely broke and virtually ended the practice of protecting big
banks as too big to fail. The committee refused to cut back on existing law that guaranteed deposit insurance of
$100,000 per account. Bob Graham, D-Fla. tried to substitute a limit of $100,000 per account per institution, but that
was defeated.
The committee agreed to let the FDIC cover uninsured deposits when to do so would cost less than any other method of
closing a failed bank. But the panel also agreed to let the FDIC impose a 10 percent “haircut,” or loss, on those
uninsured depositors. However, the committee rejected on a 9–12 vote an amendment by Phil Gramm, R-Texas to strike
language that would have prevented the Federal Reserve from making secured loans to weak banks. The bill was
similar to the House measure in that it would have required the Fed to take a loss if it lent to a weak bank that failed,
and that loss would have been passed along to taxpayers.
The committee also agreed to allow well-capitalized, well-managed banks to accept insured deposits placed by
securities brokers, provided the interest rates paid were not substantially above market norms.
Securities affiliations. By a 10–11 vote, the committee rejected an amendment sponsored by Richard H. Bryan, D-
Nev. that would have stiffened the fire walls the bill would have erected between banks and their securities affiliates.
Riegle, who negotiated a fire wall compromise with Garn, opposed Bryan and a majority of the panel's Democrats. In
return for Riegle's support on fire walls, Garn never pressed amendments that would have opened the door to bank
affiliations with commercial companies.
Bank regulatory agencies. The committee dropped a Riegle-drafted provision, adamantly opposed by the
administration, that would have created a new bank regulatory agency independent of the Treasury Department, in
which most federal banking regulation had been lodged since the Civil War. The issue was too contentious for the
Senate committee (as it had been in the House). And though some senators wanted to renew the fight on the floor, it
never resurfaced.
Senate Floor
Nearly two months after the committee voted, a draft report to the Senate was still circulating among committee
members. With the administration eager for progress, Riegle blamed committee Republicans for the delay.
After the committee report was filed on Oct. 1, the delay continued. As November approached, there was hope that
the Senate could act roughly in tandem with the House; those hopes hinged on the Gonzalez-Dingell compromise
on securities and insurance activities of banks. Members in both chambers believed that if the House were to
accept the Gonzalez-Dingell compromise, the two bills would move close enough to each other that a House-
Senate conference could quickly reconcile differences, increasing the likelihood that a broad banking bill could be
enacted before Congress adjourned.
7/3/09 12:27 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 16 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110000&type=hitlist&num=1
With the House defeat of HR 6 on Nov. 4, those plans were dashed, and the Senate's plans to act on S 543 were
abandoned. “I want to study the aftermath,” Riegle said.
Nine days later, on Nov. 13, as the House prepared to take up the second of its three banking bills, S 543 finally
came to the floor. The Senate made progress Nov. 13–14, disposing of several issues before the bill was
sidetracked for the balance of that week by a protracted debate over extending unemployment benefits, and by the
failure of the second bill in the House. (Unemployment benefits, p. 301)
The Senate returned to the bill the following week and slogged through nearly two dozen amendments, adopting 17.
Riegle worked hard to push his committee's comprehensive bill through, cutting dozens of deals in the process.
Many of those deals were accommodated in a 165-page “managers' amendment” adopted without debate by voice
vote an hour before the bill finally passed. Lobbyists said the next day that they were still trying to find out exactly
what the amendment did. “We accommodated everybody who wanted to be accommodated,” Riegle said.
On the evening of Nov. 21, in a sudden and surprising voice vote with fewer than 10 senators in the chamber, the
Senate passed S 543. The action came within two hours of the House having passed HR 3768; the confluence of
events appeared to be more than happenstance.
That passage came on a voice vote was also hardly a coincidence. “A lot of people don't want to have to vote… to
refinance the bank insurance fund,” Riegle told reporters afterward. Senate aides also said there was a concern that
the overwhelming House vote for a narrow bill might also stall momentum on the broader Senate measure, so they
wanted to act quickly.
Moments before, Dale Bumpers, D-Ark. a strong opponent of interstate branching, asked for a roll-call vote, but none
of the few other senators present would second his request. Riegle talked Bumpers into backing off, and the bill
passed, leaving lobbyists outside the chamber still working on potential amendments.
An hour later, Paul Wellstone, D-Minn. took to the floor in protest: “I guess I would not have believed that we would
have voted on a bill, tens of billions of dollars, on a voice vote…. I think it reflects poorly on the Senate.”
During the first two days of floor action, however, the Senate agreed to several changes that were seen by the bill's
advocates as enhancing its chances of passage, and one that threatened to blow up in its face.
Alfonse M. D'Amato, R-N.Y. caught nearly everyone by surprise with an amendment to cap credit card interest rates.
The amendment was adopted 74–19 on Nov. 13. With credit card rates averaging nearly 19 percent, many senators
found the amendment difficult to oppose. And there was a brief flurry of support for the idea in the House. The
amendment was seen as certain veto bait, however. And Garn correctly predicted soon after the amendment was
adopted that it would be dropped in negotiations with the House. (Credit cards, p. 85; vote 251, p. 33–S)
Behind-the-scenes negotiations the first two days also resulted in the adoption Nov. 14 by voice vote of three
amendments to critical parts of the bill:
Securities powers. Provisions that would have partially repealed the Glass-Steagall Act were the first to be dropped.
Similar language had already been stripped from the House bill,  and senators did not want to fight over how strictly to
limit financial and other ties between banks and affiliated securities firms. This action angered Dixon, who denounced
the outcome as “junk” and complained that real opportunities for banks to improve their profitability and competitiveness
were gone. Dixon blamed the Bush administration for giving up too easily on the Glass-Steagall repeal, arguing that it
was worth taking the issue to a joint House-Senate conference. “The administration will accept anything so they can say
they got a bill,  declare victory and go home,” Dixon said.
Insurance powers. Language in the committee version was modified to allow national banks to sell insurance in those
states that allowed state-chartered banks to do so. But it would have preserved provisions in the bill that would have
closed loopholes that permitted a few banks to sell insurance nationwide. This change eased the unhappiness of Garn
and Gramm, who were strongly opposed to the severe insurance restrictions in the committee version. But it also upset
insurance agents, who opposed letting banks into their business at all costs.
Interstate branching. The committee version would have permitted banks to open branch offices across state lines
unless a state voted to prohibit branching. It was altered by an amendment by Wendell H. Ford, D-Ky. As approved on
the floor, banks would have been permitted to branch only by buying an existing bank — unless a state specifically
voted to allow the creation of new branches. The Senate action also would have delayed for three years the ability of
banking companies that owned banks in multiple states to consolidate those institutions into a single branch network.
The committee bill would have allowed consolidation in about 18 months.
Before adopting the Ford amendment, the Senate rejected an amendment by Bumpers that would have permitted
interstate branching only in states that explicitly voted to allow it. The Bumpers amendment was killed, 55–39, on a
tabling motion. (Vote 252, p. 33–S )
Several amendments that could have been bill killers were defeated during the week of Nov. 18. One rejected
amendment would have struck an entire title devoted to consumer protection, and another would have greatly restricted
the FDIC's access to the money it needed to close failed banks. The Senate refused, 34–62, to table an amendment by
Thad Cochran, R-Miss. to strike one consumer section that would have required banks to provide low-income
consumers with basic banking or government check-cashing services at modest cost. His amendment was then
adopted Nov. 19 by voice vote. (Vote 257, p. 34–S )
Senators also adopted a negotiated amendment that was certain to cause trouble with the House. Bryan wanted to
reverse a June 1991 Supreme Court decision that closed the door on numerous securities fraud lawsuits seeking
7/3/09 12:27 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 17 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110000&type=hitlist&num=1
reverse a June 1991 Supreme Court decision that closed the door on numerous securities fraud lawsuits seeking
monetary damages from such notables as former “junk” bond king Michael R. Milken and former thrift owner Charles H.
Keating Jr.
Determined to thwart Bryan, Domenici argued that a small number of law firms and professional plaintiffs were lying in
wait to exploit securities laws to force unwarranted legal settlements that would harm stockholders and damage
corporate competitiveness. The two agreed to preserve lawsuits that were pending at the time of the court decision and
would have been halted by it, but they agreed to prevent future cases.
The Senate also adopted a host of non-banking amendments involving such disparate issues as repeal of an excise tax
on yachts, a ban on imports of goods made by Chinese prison labor, U.S. policy toward Yugoslavia, the production of
chemical and biological weapons, and the pension rights of Trans World Airlines employees. The Senate-passed bill
also retained a provision to require the minting of a newly designed $1 circulating coin.
Conference, Final Action
A two-day House-Senate conference that ended in a marathon overnight session Nov. 26–27, produced a
compromise bill that did what all sides conceded was the bare minimum — and largely avoided controversy.
The conference concluded at 4:57 a.m., and the House adopted the conference agreement by voice vote six hours
later, acting just as soon as congressional staff had finished putting together the legislative language. The Senate
adopted the conference agreement later in the afternoon, by a vote of 68–15, clearing the measure for the
president. (Vote 279, p. 36–S)
The action fulfilled the pressing need to replenish the nearly depleted Bank Insurance Fund by granting the FDIC a
$30 billion line of credit with the Treasury to cover losses in failed banks. The $30 billion plus interest was to be
repaid over 15 years from higher insurance premiums charged to banks, and at the time of enactment was not
expected to result in a direct or indirect cost to taxpayers.
The FDIC was also allowed to borrow additional money on a short-term basis, secured by assets that the agency
seized from failed banks. As those assets were sold, the so-called working capital was to be repaid from the
proceeds.
In addition, the bill made key changes in the deposit-insurance system in an effort to further reduce losses to the
fund. But members resigned themselves to having done only half the job that they had been asked to do by the
Bush administration, and that many believed was necessary to prevent major bank failures in the future.
“As far as fixing the problem for the long term, we don't do it,” said North Carolina's Stephen Neal, during House
floor debate on the final bill Nov. 27. “We do provide some important regulatory reform, several hundred pages of
it…. We knew how to do much more, and we should have done much more and we didn't.”
Wylie conceded that “no one was completely satisfied with the product we came out with.” He and other members
talked of resuming the fight in 1992, but few members of the House or Senate Banking committees had the
stomach for reopening the battle wounds they received during 1991.
In the days immediately after the House and Senate passed HR 3768 and S 543, it was not clear that there would
be a conference — or that differences between the bills could be reconciled before adjournment. The narrow House
bill was still 339 pages long. And the Senate bill, which contained a wealth of provisions with no counterpart in the
House measure, was 829 pages.
Staff and members of the House and Senate Banking committees met over the weekend of Nov. 23–24 to see how
far they could get in working out differences informally. Aides worried that as many as nine House committees
would have to get involved, so sweeping was the Senate measure. That could have required a huge formal
conference committee and delicate negotiations to ensure that all jurisdictional concerns were accommodated.
The biggest question, of course, was interstate branching. The House had twice rejected bills that would have
allowed interstate branching, raising doubts that such a provision could survive in conference. Nevertheless, Brady
and Riegle decided to try to fight to preserve the provision in a final bill.
Riegle's position was out of character, because he had been reluctant to address issues beyond overhauling the
deposit-insurance system since the first of the year. And, ironically, Garn, who favored sweeping changes in bank
regulation, seemed to give up on branching. “We're going to end up with a narrow bill,” he predicted well before the
conference convened.
Congressional leaders met with rank-and-file members and Treasury Department officials over the Nov. 23–24
weekend in repeated efforts to overcome the House's reluctance to accepting interstate branching. But those
meetings did not yield a compromise, in large part because insurance and securities lobbyists had succeeded in
linking their issues to branching. A compromise that would give insurance agents and the securities industry what
they wanted, in return for branching, was not seen as a bargain by the banks. That was particularly true since not
all bankers wanted branching, and some who did not could have been harmed by the changes sought by insurance
and securities interests.
On Nov. 25, however, the House finally asked for a conference on S 543, after amending it with the text of the
much narrower HR 3768.
7/3/09 12:27 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 18 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110000&type=hitlist&num=1
Riegle tried to pressure his colleagues to act by calling an eleventh-hour hearing on Nov. 25 with the new chairman
of the FDIC, William Taylor. Riegle apparently hoped that Taylor would embrace the need for broader banking
reform. Instead, while Taylor agreed that some broader change in banking law would be helpful over the long term,
his short-term need for money far outweighed those considerations. “We need the money, and we need all of it,”
Taylor said. Other changes could wait, he said.
In a letter the same day to Riegle, Brady complained that “the narrow bill that we understand is the basis for
House/Senate negotiations provides critically needed funding but is otherwise inadequate to the task at hand.” But
Treasury was clearly resigned to cutting deals that would at least get a narrow bill out of conference and did not
insist on a broader measure.
In the end, Riegle criticized administration officials for failing to push hard for a broader bill. “There just wasn't
enough appetite for it in the administration,” he said at the conclusion of the conference negotiations. “The Treasury
had to pursue more aggressively, and they didn't do that.”
Although all sides referred to what was passed as a narrow bill, it was hardly anorexic. The final bill weighed in at
437 pages and was still credited as a sweeping measure.
Supporters stressed that the bill contained substantial reforms, particularly language requiring the FDIC to close
failed banks in the least costly way possible and to step in to close banks before they went completely broke. The
latter provision was tied to a series of tighter rules aimed at forcing banks to maintain a capital cushion against
failure and requirements that regulators conduct annual, on-site examinations of the books of all mid-size and large
banks. The least-cost provision was intended to eliminate findings by the regulators that banks were too big to fail,
except in the most dire circumstances. Only when the Treasury secretary, the president, the Federal Reserve Board
and the FDIC board agreed that a “systemic risk” existed could the FDIC protect all deposits in a failing bank —
including those that exceeded the $100,000 limit or were not insured for other reasons.
Supporters noted that the bill placed tighter restrictions on the operations of foreign banks in the United States.
Those provisions were drafted largely by the Federal Reserve Board to respond to the worldwide scandal involving
the Bank of Credit and Commerce International and its illegal ownership of several large U.S. banks, among them
the Washington, D.C.-based First American Bankshares.
The bill also included the Truth-in-Savings Act, a measure that required banks to give their customers more
complete and understandable information about the interest earned on deposits. Both the House and Senate had
passed versions of the measure numerous times but never in concert with each other. (1988 Almanac, p. 248)
There was never much doubt that the conference agreement would drop language permitting interstate branching
and that it would not contain any of the other changes sought by the administration and some banking interests to
improve the industry's profitability. Not only had the House failed to pass bills that contained such provisions, but
the chamber cast an overwhelming 398–3 vote on Nov. 25 insisting that conferees stick with the narrow House-
passed bill. (Vote 423, p. 102 –H)
It was also virtually assured that the conference would drop the Senate's credit card rate-cap amendment.
In fact, most of what was contained solely in the Senate measure fell on the floor, including provisions that would
have restricted the ability of banks to sell insurance, given banks some immunity from the costs of cleaning up toxic
waste sites that they inherited through foreclosures, and pressed other countries to grant U.S. banks and securities
firms treatment similar to that given to their own firms (the so-called Fair Trade in Financial Services Act, which was
also incorporated in other measures). (Defense production act, p. 109)
Ultimately — although it took time to work through the complex bills and to settle differences that seemed more a
matter of style than substance — there were few real fights in conference and very few cases in which conferees
actually had to vote to resolve matters.
The House forced the Senate to accept language marginally increasing supervision of credit unions, creating new
FDIC programs to promote the disposition of low-income housing, giving incentives to banks that made loans in low-
income neighborhoods and including the Truth-in-Savings Act.
The Senate forced the House to drop language requiring state-chartered banks, thrifts and credit unions to obtain
federal deposit insurance.
Features
Boxscore
Banking Overhaul (S 543, HR 3768; two House bills rejected: HR 6, HR 2094). The bill provided $30 billion in
borrowing authority for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to cover depositor losses in failed banks. It also
made numerous changes in the federal deposit insurance system to reduce the chance for losses in the future.
Reports: S Rept 102 –167, H Rept 102 –330, H Rept 102 –407; H Rept 102 –157, Parts I-VI; H
Rept 102 –293.
KEY ACTION
7/3/09 12:27 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 19 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110000&type=hitlist&num=1
June 28 — House Banking Committee approved HR 6, a broad overhaul bill, by a vote of 31–20.
Aug. 2 — Senate Banking Committee approved S 543, a broad overhaul bill, by a vote of 12–9.
Sept. 25 — House Agriculture, Energy and Commerce, and Ways and Means committees approved amendments to
HR 6.
Oct. 3 — House Judiciary Committee approved amendments to HR 6.
Nov. — House killed HR 6 by a vote of 89–324.
Nov. 6 — House Banking Committee approved a new, narrower bank overhaul bill, HR 2094, by a vote of 37–15.
Nov. 14 — House killed HR 2094 by a vote of 191–227.
Nov. 19 — House Banking Committee approved its third bill, HR 3768, by a vote of 44–7
Nov. 21 — House passed HR 3768 by a vote of 344–84. Senate passed S 543 by voice vote.
Nov. 23 — House passed S 543, after substituting text of HR 3768, and asked for a conference.
Nov. 27 — House-Senate conferees approved a slimmed-down version of S 543. House adopted the conference
report by voice vote. Senate adopted the conference report by a vote of 68–15, clearing the bill for the president.
Dec. 19 — President Bush signed S 543 — PL 102 – 242 .
FDIC's Seidman Resigns; Taylor Takes His Place
In the midst of debate over how to proceed on the banking overhaul bill, a leading proponent of change and the
most respected banking regulator in Washington left his job. L. William Seidman — chairman of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (FDIC) since 1985, and by virtue of that job, also head of the Resolution Trust Corporation
(RTC) created in 1989 to salvage the failing thrift industry — stepped down Oct. 16.
He headed the FDIC for six years, and departed with the savings and loan bailout roughly half complete, with the
administration's request for $80 billion more from taxpayers to close failing thrifts still on the table, and with a
potentially serious banking crisis still in the formative stages. (Thrift bailout, p. 98; banking overhaul, p. 75)
The House and Senate Banking Committee chairmen, Rep. Henry B. Gonzalez, D-Texas and Sen. Donald W. Riegle
Jr., D-Mich. both praised Seidman, following his announcement Aug. 6 that he would step down when his term
ended.
“This is a great loss for the government…. I have the highest regard for him, and he will be very difficult to replace,”
Riegle said. Gonzalez said: “He has been a strong voice, willing to lay out the hard facts about the industry's
problems. He maintained great credibility on Capitol Hill during the most difficult period in the history of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation.”
Smaller community banks, whose continued survival Seidman championed in the face of a growing trend toward
bank consolidation, also were sad to see him retire at age 70.
That was not true of many members of the Bush administration, even though they relied on his credibility on Capitol
Hill. When Seidman publicly disagreed with other administration officials in early 1990 over the cost of the thrift
bailout, saying that their estimates were too low, White House Chief of Staff John H. Sununu tried to get the FDIC
chief to step down early. Seidman refused, playing a cat and mouse game over the timing of his retirement and
eventually serving out his term.
Taylor Named Successor
Seidman was replaced as FDIC chairman by William Taylor, 52, who had been top banking regulator with the
Federal Reserve System, where he had spent most of his professional career. The Senate Banking Committee
recommended Taylor's confirmation by a 21–0 vote on Oct. 18; he was confirmed by the full Senate by voice vote
on Oct. 22. His term was to expire Feb. 28, 1993.
President Bush had indicated at the time of the Sununu-Seidman flap in 1990 that he intended to appoint Taylor to
the FDIC post. As soon as his troubles with Sununu flared up, Seidman publicly recommended Taylor for the job.
For the first days after Seidman announced he would leave in October 1991, however, the president was quiet and
allowed speculation that Taylor would not get the nod.
As top regulator at the Fed, Taylor came in for questioning in 1991 about an international scandal involving the
Bank of Credit and Commerce International (BCCI). Three congressional committees looked into the scandal —
which involved allegations of fraud, money laundering, loss of perhaps $10 billion by BCCI depositors worldwide and
the secret, decade-long, illegal ownership of several large U.S. banks. Among those was First American
Bankshares, one of the largest in Washington, D.C., which was headed by longtime Democratic Party activist Clark
Clifford.
Taylor was questioned closely about what the Fed knew, and when. He and other Fed officials maintained that they
7/3/09 12:27 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 20 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110000&type=hitlist&num=1
Taylor was questioned closely about what the Fed knew, and when. He and other Fed officials maintained that they
were misled about BCCI's ownership of those banks. The Fed's failure to catch BCCI's illegal activities ultimately did
not taint Taylor's nomination.
Seidman's other job, that of running the RTC, was not handed over to Taylor. In the thrift financing bill enacted at
the end of the session (HR 3435), Congress separated the FDIC from the RTC and created the new position of
RTC chief executive officer, who was to be nominated by the president and confirmed by the Senate.
Deposit Insurance Overhaul Bill Provisions
As signed by President Bush on Dec. 19, 1992, the major provisions of HR 543 – PL 102 – 242 :
Bank Insurance Fund Replenishment
Borrowing Authority
Treasury line of credit. Allowed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) to borrow up to $30 billion
unsecured from the federal Treasury to cover losses in failed banks — principally to pay off insured depositors.
Previously, the FDIC had a $5 billion line of credit with the Treasury, which it never tapped.
Working capital. Altered the statutory limit on other FDIC borrowing, chiefly used to provide temporary working capital
for the purchase of assets from failed banks. Such borrowing was to be repaid from the proceeds of the assets when
they were sold to another bank or to the general public. The law allowed the FDIC to borrow from multiple sources
(principally the Federal Financing Bank, an arm of the Treasury) an amount equal to 90 percent of the fair market value
of the assets the agency took from failed banks. Prior law allowed the FDIC to borrow up to nine times its net worth for
working capital needs. But as the insurance fund neared insolvency, that limit became meaningless.
Borrowing from banks. Gave the FDIC the option of borrowing from banks instead of the Treasury to cover insurance
fund losses. The borrowing was subject to the $30 billion cap on money borrowed to cover losses; it was subject to the
public debt limit that governed general Treasury borrowing; and the bonds had to be priced identically to comparable
Treasury issues, to hold down interest rates.
Repayment by Banks
Repayment schedule. Required the Treasury and the FDIC to agree to a schedule of deposit insurance premium
payments by banks to repay any money borrowed to cover FDIC losses plus interest. The FDIC and the Treasury were
required to consult with the House and Senate Banking committees on repayment schedules, and the FDIC had to
demonstrate that insurance premiums paid by banks were sufficient to meet the schedule. The FDIC was also
authorized to adjust premiums at any time during the year and to set them at any level. Under prior law, premiums could
only be raised at two specific times each year.
Emergency special assessments. Allowed the FDIC to impose special premium assessments on bank deposits in
addition to regular assessments in order to repay loans from the Treasury or from banks.
GAO audit. Required the General Accounting Office (GAO) to report quarterly to Congress on the repayment of money
borrowed by the FDIC from the Treasury and on the FDIC's success at estimating the market value of assets that it
purchased with borrowed working capital.
Recapitalization schedule. Required the FDIC to devise a schedule of deposit insurance premiums to increase the
Bank Insurance Fund's reserves to 1.25 percent of insured deposits within 15 years of enactment. The FDIC could
adjust the recapitalization schedule but not in ways that would extend the deadline for meeting the required reserve
ratio.
Deposit Insurance System Overhaul
Early Intervention
Minimum capital requirements. Required all federal banking regulators to review their minimum capital requirements
for banks and thrifts every other year to ensure that they were sufficient to minimize losses to the deposit insurance
funds. At least two standards were required — a leverage standard of total capital as measured against total assets and
a risk-based standard of total capital as measured against assets that had been weighted for their relative riskiness.
Similar standards existed previously for banks and thrifts. Regulators were permitted to impose additional standards
employing other measures. Within 18 months, banking regulators would have to adjust their risk-based standards to
account for the risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates, concentrations of loans and non-traditional activities.
The Federal Reserve Board was required to discuss with foreign bank regulators similar changes to international risk-
based capital standards.
Capital levels. Established five levels for measuring the capital of banks and thrifts. Supervision and enforcement
actions were specified for an institution based on its capital level.
“Well-capitalized” institutions carried amounts of capital measured in several ways that significantly exceeded mandatory
minimums. “Adequately capitalized” institutions met the minimum requirements. “Undercapitalized” institutions did not
meet all minimums. “Significantly undercapitalized” institutions fell considerably short of minimums. And “critically
undercapitalized” institutions failed to meet a “critical capital level.”
Regulators were allowed to establish numerical minimums for each category, but the law set the critical capital level at
no less than 2 percent equity capital (excluding some items frequently included in calculations of total capital) as
measured against total assets, and at no more than 65 percent of the minimum standard. The critical capital level was
7/3/09 12:27 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 21 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110000&type=hitlist&num=1
measured against total assets, and at no more than 65 percent of the minimum standard. The critical capital level was
to be used to trigger specific regulatory actions leading to closure of banks or thrifts. (See prompt action, below)
Non-capital performance standards. Allowed regulators to downgrade the rating of a bank or thrift that was found to
be operating in an unsafe and unsound manner. The new rating would have to be one level lower than that for which
the bank or thrift would qualify based solely on its capital.
Regulators could also downgrade an institution if it were found to have less than satisfactory assets, management,
earnings or liquidity — factors that were used along with capital in routine ratings.
Enhanced supervision. Required the FDIC and other banking regulators to devise standards to measure the
operations and management of banks and thrifts, as well as the appropriate proportion of bad loans to total assets and
the amount of earnings needed to offset loan losses.
As a part of these standards, federal regulators were required to determine at what point salaries and benefits to
officers, employees, directors or stockholders constituted excessive compensation or, could cause a material loss to an
institution.
Banks and thrifts that failed to meet these standards were required to submit plans to overcome the shortfall. If they
failed to do so, regulators could impose restrictions, including limiting the growth of assets, limiting interest rates paid on
deposits and requiring an increase in capital.
In addition, unless a bank or thrift received explicit permission from federal regulators, it could not pay dividends to
stockholders if doing so would cause the institution's capital to fall below minimum standards. Also, institutions could not
pay management fees if doing so would cause them to become undercapitalized.
Prompt corrective action. Required any undercapitalized (or worse) bank or thrift to submit a capital restoration plan
showing how it would meet minimum standards without increasing its risk of failure, and prohibited any such institution
from paying dividends until  it met all minimum capital requirements.
Bank regulators could not approve a capital restoration plan unless any company having control over the bank or thrift (a
bank or thrift holding company) guaranteed the bank's or thrift's compliance with the plan. The holding company would
be liable for an amount up to 5 percent of the value of the bank or thrift, or the amount that would have been required to
recapitalize the institution at the time it was found not to be in compliance, if that amount were less.
Regulators had to sharply limit the growth of undercapitalized banks, making exceptions only where asset growth was
consistent with an approved capital restoration plan and equity capital was increasing according to schedule.
Acquisitions and branching were permitted only where consistent with the plan, or where the FDIC chose to waive that
requirement.
For significantly undercapitalized institutions (or those that failed to submit and act on capital restoration plans), the
payment of salary increases and bonuses to officers was prohibited, and regulators were required to take other actions,
such as requiring the sale of additional stock, prohibiting the acceptance of deposits from other banks and capping the
interest paid on deposits. Additional actions could be ordered, including further restrictions on growth or a reduction in
the bank's size; replacement of officers, directors or outside auditors; and sale of the bank or any affiliate that the
regulators believed threatened the bank's health.
In addition, critically undercapitalized banks generally could not make interest or principal payments on subordinated
debt (a class of bond that was not payable until  all  other creditors were satisfied and that often counted as capital)
issued after July 15, 1991. And the FDIC was generally required to prohibit such institutions from making material
changes in their business.
Prompt closure. Required federal banking regulators to take control of (by appointing a conservator) or seize and close
(by appointing a receiver) any bank or thrift that failed to maintain capital in excess of the “critical capital level,” unless
an alternative action was more likely to protect the deposit insurance fund.
Notwithstanding contrary state laws, regulators were required to take action within 90 days after an institution's capital
fell below the critical level. Regulators could choose to take less drastic action than closure for 90-day periods if they
determined that such action would better protect the deposit insurance fund.
If the institution's capital remained below the critical level for one year, regulators would have to appoint a receiver and
close the institution in most cases. Regulators could allow an institution to stay open if they certified it to be viable and if
the institution had a positive net worth, was in substantial compliance with its capital restoration plan, had sustained
improvement in earnings and was reducing its proportion of non-performing loans. Undercapitalized thrifts that prior to
enactment had agreed to capital restoration plans under the 1989 thrift salvage law (PL 101-73) were not subject to the
law's prompt closure provisions until  after July 1, 1994.
Inspector general reports. Required the FDIC inspector general to report to the agency and to the GAO whenever the
insurance fund suffered a material loss because it provided unreimbursed assistance to a failing bank or thrift or
because it closed a bank or thrift whose assets were worth less than the cost of closing the institution. This provision
was to take effect July 1, 1993, and was to be triggered only when the FDIC incurred a loss greater than $25 million or
2 percent of the value of the bank or thrift. Inspector general reports were to be made public upon request.
Effective date. Required federal regulators to put final regulations for these provisions into effect one year after
enactment.
Too-Big-to-Fail Banks
Least-cost resolution. Required the FDIC to use the least-costly method of protecting insured depositors when it
closed institutions and sold them in whole or in part. The purpose was to greatly limit the circumstances under which
uninsured deposits were fully protected by preventing the FDIC from incurring a loss when it protected them. When
7/3/09 12:27 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 22 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110000&type=hitlist&num=1
uninsured deposits were fully protected by preventing the FDIC from incurring a loss when it protected them. When
uninsured depositors were not protected, they had to wait along with unsecured creditors (including the FDIC) for the
bank's assets to be sold. Uninsured depositors and other creditors then shared in the proceeds, generally a large
fraction of what they were owed.
Under prior practice, most failed banks and many failed thrifts were sold virtually intact through so-called purchase and
assumption transactions. The FDIC believed that such deals, which usually provided full protection to insured and
uninsured depositors alike, were easier to manage and cost less. The law specifically permitted the FDIC to continue its
practice of selling (and thereby protecting) the uninsured deposits of a failed bank or thrift. But to do so, it had to show
that it did not incur a greater loss than it would have had it not sold them.
When making least-cost calculations, the FDIC was required to evaluate the long-term costs of various methods of case
resolution. The FDIC had to discount all costs and receipts from sales of assets to “present value,” subtracting for the
long-term effects of inflation. The cost of forgone tax revenues resulting from the transaction had to be included as if
they were revenues forgone by the FDIC. And the FDIC could not consider broad economic effects or the effects of a
particular method on overall financial industry stability, unless specific consequences for the insurance fund could be
identified.
Open-bank assistance. Allowed the FDIC to continue to provide financial assistance to weak banks that were in
danger of failing, rather than take control of or close them. However, the FDIC could provide such assistance only if
doing so would cost less than closing the bank.
‘Systemic risk.' Permitted the government, under very narrow circumstances, to waive the general rule created by the
law that the FDIC could take no action to protect uninsured depositors that would cause a loss to the insurance fund.
In those cases where a large bank failure posed a “systemic risk” to the nation's financial system, the FDIC could sustain
a loss by protecting all deposits and non-deposit liabilities in a failing bank or thrift. Such action had to be approved in
advance by a two-thirds vote of the FDIC board of directors, by a two-thirds vote of the Federal Reserve Board of
Governors and by the Treasury secretary in consultation with the president. The Treasury secretary had to notify the
House and Senate Banking committees of any systemic risk determination and the justification for it.
Any loss to the insurance fund from a systemic risk determination had to be recovered expeditiously through a special
premium assessment levied against the total assets held by banks, minus their capital. By specifying total assets, that
formula had the effect of requiring that insured banks pay premiums on deposits held in their overseas branches. Such
foreign deposits were nominally not insured, even under prior law, but were almost always protected when big banks
failed. (Banks always paid insurance premiums on the total amount of their domestic deposits, even those that were in
excess of the insured amount.)
The effect of the provision was to severely restrict the regulator-devised policy under prior law of fully protecting so-
called too-big-to-fail banks. Under prior law, the FDIC could protect fully all bank depositors and creditors, regardless of
cost, if the bank was deemed essential to its community.
GAO audit. Required the GAO to report annually to Congress on the FDIC's compliance with the least-cost provisions
and to report on each instance where the government protected all depositors because of a finding of systemic risk.
Federal Reserve assistance. Prevented the Fed from making loans to banks that failed to meet all capital standards for
more than 60 days of a 120-day period, unless a banking regulator (which could be the Fed) certified that the bank had
capital above the critical capital level and was not expected to be closed.
The Fed was permitted to make loans to critically undercapitalized institutions (or other undercapitalized institutions that
were not certified as viable) for more than five days, but not without risk. If the FDIC was later forced to close the bank,
and the cost of resolution was greater than it would have been to liquidate the bank at the time of the loan, the Fed was
liable to the FDIC for the excess loss. The Fed would have to pay an amount equal either to the interest it earned on the
loan or to the loss the Fed would have taken had its loan to the failed bank been unsecured, whichever was smaller.
Losses by the Fed would reduce the central bank's earnings and thereby cut its annual payments to the Treasury. The
Fed was required to report to Congress on any loss it incurred under this provision.
Limiting Fed lending to weak banks was an essential element of the law's effort to constrict the too-big-to-fail policy. The
concern was that unrestrained Fed lending to a failing bank gave uninsured depositors time to withdraw their money,
imposing a higher cost on the FDIC when the bank eventually failed.
Final settlement procedure. Authorized the FDIC at the time it closed an insolvent bank or thrift to make payments to
uninsured depositors and unsecured creditors at a rate equal to the FDIC's historic cost of closing failed institutions.
Such payments would end all depositor and creditor claims on the bank's assets. In previous years, the FDIC had
recovered about 85 percent of the book value of bank assets when they were sold.
Effective date. Required the FDIC to produce final regulations by Jan. 1, 1994, that would put the least-cost resolution
provisions into effect as of Jan. 1, 1995. The restraints on Fed loans were to take effect two years after enactment.
State Bank Powers
Restrictions on activities. Prohibited, with exceptions, insured state-chartered banks from engaging in activities not
permitted for federally chartered banks. As a general rule, national banks could not engage in non-banking activities or
take an ownership (equity) interest in a non-banking activity. This provision paralleled restrictions imposed on state-
chartered thrifts in the 1989 thrift-industry salvage law (PL 101-73).
The prohibitions on state banks applied to direct activities of state-chartered banks and to activities of the subsidiaries
of state banks (which generally could not engage in activities that were not permitted to subsidiaries of national banks).
State banks were given five years after enactment to sell any prohibited equity investment.
A bank or bank subsidiary that met all minimum capital standards would be exempt from the general limits on
7/3/09 12:27 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 23 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110000&type=hitlist&num=1
A bank or bank subsidiary that met all minimum capital standards would be exempt from the general limits on
permissible activities if the FDIC did not object and found that the activity posed no significant risk to the insurance fund,
except that the FDIC could not waive the general ban on equity investments of state banks.
Stock ownership exceptions. Permitted state banks to hold equity stakes in subsidiaries that they controlled. And
state banks could invest as limited partners in projects to build, acquire or rehabilitate low-income housing. State banks
that were permitted to own publicly traded stocks on Sept. 30, 1991, and were doing so before Nov. 26, 1991, could
continue to do so, provided the aggregate investment by a bank did not exceed its capital. Excess investments had to
be divested over three years after enactment. State banks were also permitted to own up to 15 percent of a “bankers'
bank” that serviced its investor banks.
Insurance activities. Prohibited state banks and their subsidiaries from underwriting most insurance, as long as such
activities were prohibited for national banks. The law permitted well-capitalized state banks that existed as of Nov. 21,
1991, to continue underwriting insurance, and it permitted state banks that were required before June 1, 1991, by their
charter to underwrite title insurance to continue to do so.
The law also grandfathered the life insurance underwriting activities of New England savings banks but required the
FDIC to study that issue within a year of enactment to determine if it posed a risk to the insurance fund. If the FDIC
found a risk to exist, it could require a grandfathered bank to modify or terminate its insurance activities.
The law did not affect the ability of states to allow the sale of insurance by banks chartered in those states and by the
subsidiaries of such banks.
Effective date. Put the general bar on state-bank activities into effect one year after enactment.
Deposit Insurance Coverage Limits
Individual accounts. Made no change in existing law on the amount of deposit insurance coverage provided.
Individuals could still have multiple accounts at a single institution, each insured to the maximum amount of $100,000.
Brokered deposits. Prohibited banks and thrifts that did not exceed minimum capital requirements from soliciting
deposits by paying significantly higher interest rates than did other institutions in the same market.
On a case-by-case basis, the FDIC could allow well-capitalized institutions (and certain institutions under
conservatorship) to accept brokered deposits, which typically were placed through securities dealers seeking the highest
rates of interest nationwide. Rates paid on brokered deposits could not significantly exceed rates paid on deposits of
similar maturity either in the local market area of the bank or nationwide.
Securities brokers who solicited such deposits had to register with and report periodically to the FDIC.
Undercapitalized institutions not only could not accept brokered deposits but could not advertise interest rates
significantly above those in their local market area.
Regulations to enforce this provision were to take effect 180 days after enactment.
Pass-through insurance. Required the FDIC to insure very large deposits placed in well-capitalized banks by pension
funds as if each beneficiary of the affected pension plan received coverage totaling $100,000. The same restrictions that
applied to accepting brokered deposits limited the types of banks that could accept deposits carrying so-called pass-
through insurance coverage.
The law expressly prohibited pass-through coverage for certain types of negotiated certificates of deposit — called bank
investment contracts — for which banks agreed to permit periodic withdrawals without penalty for the purpose of paying
benefits.
The law continued pass-through coverage for bundled real estate escrow accounts and similar trust accounts for which
the depositor was acting as agent for a large number of individuals and the total deposit exceeded the $100,000 limit.
The bar on pass-through coverage for banks that were not well-capitalized was to take effect one year after enactment.
Foreign deposits. Except as allowed under provisions permitting the FDIC to cover foreign deposits under least-cost
calculations or findings of systemic risk, the law prohibited the insurance fund from protecting foreign deposits.
Deposit insurance study. Required the FDIC to study, in conjunction with the Fed, the feasibility and cost of tracking
insured and uninsured deposits, which would be necessary in any effort to establish a systemwide limit on individual
deposit insurance. The FDIC was required to report to Congress on this issue, along with recommendations, within 18
months of enactment.
Accounting and Examination Changes
Annual exams. Required the FDIC and other applicable federal banking regulators (the Federal Reserve System, Office
of Comptroller of the Currency or Office of Thrift Supervision) to conduct annual on-site examinations of most banks
and thrifts. Regulators could allow 18 months between examinations for those banks with assets of less than $100
million that were well-capitalized, well-managed, received the highest of five regulatory ratings and had not been
purchased within the previous year. Examination reports from state banking regulators could be substituted for federal
exams in alternate years.
The requirement for annual examinations was to take effect a year after enactment. However, until  Dec. 31, 1993,
exams were required only every 18 months, except for institutions that were found in their most recent exam to be in
less than satisfactory condition, or those that had been purchased.
7/3/09 12:27 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 24 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110000&type=hitlist&num=1
The law also required federal banking regulators to devise coordinated examination improvement programs to increase
the quality and objectivity of exams.
Charges and penalties. Permitted the FDIC to assess charges against banks and their affiliates for annual exams in
amounts necessary to cover the cost of the exams. The FDIC could impose a $5,000-per-day civil penalty on any bank
or thrift that refused to allow an on-site exam or refused to provide any information required for such an exam.
Annual independent audits. Required larger banks and thrifts to undergo annual independent audits of their financial
statements after 1992. Such audits had to include the auditor's assessment of a bank's compliance with certain laws
and regulations designated by the FDIC. Banks with less than $150 million in assets were exempt from this requirement.
Only independent auditors that agreed to provide working papers and received a peer review acceptable to the FDIC
were to be permitted to perform audits. The FDIC could bar an accounting firm from such work for good cause.
Accounting standards. Required federal banking regulators to adopt uniform accounting standards for banks and
thrifts that were consistent with, and no less stringent than, generally accepted accounting principles. Differences in
accounting treatment among regulators had to be explained to the House and Senate Banking committees.
The law also required that, within one year of enactment, banks and thrifts disclose so-called off-balance-sheet assets
and liabilities in their financial statements and quarterly, reports of condition to federal regulators.
And within a year of enactment, federal regulators were required to devise a means of reporting, to the extent feasible,
the market value (in addition to the book value) of the assets and liabilities of banks and thrifts.
Real estate loans. Required federal bank regulators to adopt, within nine months of enactment, uniform standards for
making loans for real estate acquisition, development or construction. Regulations to enforce this provision were to take
effect not more than 15 months after enactment.
Other Changes
Risk-based premiums. Required the FDIC to impose a system of deposit insurance premium assessments for banks
and thrifts that varied based on the relative risk that each bank and thrift posed to its insurance fund. Risk-based
assessments could be derived from all risks posed by a bank's capital levels, the activities in which it engaged, its mix of
assets, its holding of foreign deposits and the balance of rates and maturities between assets and deposits.
Banks and thrifts were to be treated separately, and the FDIC could devise separate assessments for large and small
institutions.
Proposed regulations for a risk-based premium system would have to be issued by Dec. 31, 1992, and final regulations
would have to be issued by July 1, 1993. Risk-based assessments for banks were to take effect no later than Jan. 1,
1994. For thrifts, the risk-based assessment system were not to take effect until  Jan. 1, 1998.
Uninsured state-chartered institutions. Required all state-chartered banks, thrifts and credit unions that did not carry
federal deposit insurance to prominently disclose that fact to existing and prospective customers, along with the fact that
depositors were not guaranteed return of their money if the institution failed. The provision also applied to any other
institution that might be mistaken for a bank. (Federally chartered banks were insured as a matter of course, but the law
required them to apply formally to the FDIC for insurance, which could be denied.)
FDIC backup authority. Authorized the FDIC to recommend that other federal bank regulators take enforcement action
against banks or thrifts that posed a significant risk to the insurance funds. The FDIC could itself take action if the other
regulators failed to act within 60 days. And the FDIC could adopt rules for taking expedited action without regard to the
60-day period.
Insider abuse. Limited and in some cases prohibited preferential treatment in the granting of loans or other services to
officers, directors or principal shareholders of banks. Generally, under the law, loans to insiders had to be made on
terms used for outside applicants.
Limits on interbank liabilities. Required the Fed to devise limits on the amounts that banks could lend to or place on
deposit with other banks. The purpose was to reduce the threat of systemic risk to the nation's financial industry posed
by large bank failures.
Appraisal standards. Deferred from July 1, 1991, to Dec. 31, 1992, the effective date for mandatory state standards for
licensed real estate appraisers. This provision was also included in a bill providing additional money for the savings and
loan salvage operation (HR 3545) that Congress cleared before adjourning.
Other Regulatory Issues
Foreign-Owned Banks
Deposit-taking. Prohibited foreign banks from accepting deposits in amounts less than $100,000 except through
subsidiary banks that were chartered and regulated in the United States and insured by the FDIC. Branch offices of
foreign banks that were insured by the FDIC and accepted such deposits on the date of enactment could continue to
accept such deposits.
New operations. Required Fed approval before any foreign bank could open a branch office or buy a bank, thrift or
commercial lending company in the United States. Existing law rarely gave the Fed jurisdiction in these areas, although
it and other federal banking regulators had some control over foreign bank operations.
7/3/09 12:27 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 25 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110000&type=hitlist&num=1
The Fed was not allowed to approve an application from a foreign company that was not engaged in banking abroad
and was not subject to comprehensive supervision in its home country. In addition, the Fed had to consider whether the
foreign bank's U.S. operations were approved by foreign regulators, whether its financial and managerial resources were
sufficient, whether the foreign bank had violated U.S. laws and whether the foreign bank had agreed to supply
information to U.S. regulators.
The law allowed the Fed to close a state-chartered bank or branch owned by a foreign bank for safety and soundness
reasons if the bank or any affiliate had violated U.S. law or if the foreign bank was not subject to comprehensive
regulation in its home country. The Fed could recommend such action to the Comptroller of the Currency for federally
chartered banks or branches owned by foreign banks.
In addition, purchase of shares in a U.S. bank with the use of loans from a foreign bank that were secured by such
shares had to be disclosed to the Fed.
The Fed was allowed to guarantee confidentiality for information provided about foreign banks by their overseas
regulators.
After one year, state-chartered banks or offices owned by a foreign bank were required to phase out any activity that
was not permitted for national banks or offices, unless the Fed found that the activity was consistent with sound banking
and, in the case of an insured branch, the FDIC also approved.
State offices of foreign banks. Gave the Fed authority to regulate certain non-banking offices of foreign banks, which
were generally subject only to state regulation under existing law.
Capital standards. Required the Fed and the Treasury to study the capital standards applicable to foreign banks
operating in the United States and determine if such standards were equivalent to those applied to domestic banks. The
Fed and the Treasury were required to report their findings to the House and Senate Banking committees no later than
180 days after enactment, and revise their report annually thereafter.
Consumer statutes. Gave federal regulators explicit authority to apply federal consumer protection laws to foreign
banks in the United States.
Penalties. Permitted civil penalties against foreign banks for violations similar to those prohibited under the Bank
Holding Company Act for U.S. companies that owned banks.
The law increased from $1,000 to $10,000 a day the penalty for failure to comply with a Fed or FDIC subpoena. And it
created a criminal penalty for intentionally violating the International Banking Act (which governed most foreign bank
activities in the United States) with the intent to deceive or cause financial gain or loss to any person. The penalty was
up to five years imprisonment and a fine of up to $1 million a day, or both.
Consumer Issues
Incentives for services in distressed communities. Reduced deposit insurance premiums for banks offering certain
services to low-income people or in economically distressed neighborhoods.
Banks that offered special, low-cost checking accounts to poor people were to pay half the usual insurance premium for
deposits in such accounts.
Banks that increased their deposits or housing-related loans in specially designated distressed communities would
receive a 5 percent credit against their deposit insurance premium payments. Banks that established special Community
Development Corporations in distressed neighborhoods would receive a 15 percent credit against their insurance
premiums.
Low-income housing preferences. Created within the FDIC a program to give preference to low-income persons and
to state and local housing agencies in disposing of low- and moderate-income single-family and multifamily housing.
The program, which paralleled one created under the Resolution Trust Corporation for the disposal of houses acquired
from failed thrifts, was to take effect six months after enactment and run for three years. Low-income individuals would
get a right of first refusal for six months on qualified single-family properties. Housing agencies would get preferences
for acquisition of multifamily buildings. The FDIC was authorized to finance purchases at or below market rates. The
program was subject to annual appropriations to cover losses due to disposal of properties at less than market rates.
Truth-in-savings. Required banks, thrifts and credit unions to disclose clearly the terms and conditions on savings
accounts. They were required to calculate the interest paid on such accounts based on the full account balance, but the
law did not specify a particular method of calculation or whether or how interest would be compounded. The law
imposed civil fines on institutions that violated these provisions. The savings account disclosure rules were to take effect
within 15 months of enactment.
Branch-closing notification. Required banks and thrifts to notify their customers and federal regulators 90 days before
the scheduled closing of a branch office. Banks would have to establish specific policies for internal review of branch-
closure decisions.
Small-business loan reporting. Required banks to provide federal bank regulators annually with details of their loans
to small businesses and small farms. In an effort to assess credit availability, regulators could require specific data for
aggregate dollar amounts of commercial and mortgage loans to small businesses, charge-offs of bad loans and interest
income from such loans. The requirement was to take effect six months after enactment.
Deposits in automatic teller machines. Permitted banks to hold for up to four days deposits made at automatic teller
machines not owned by the bank.
7/3/09 12:27 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 26 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110000&type=hitlist&num=1
Whistleblower protections. Prohibited banks and federal bank regulatory agencies from firing, punishing or
discriminating against an employee for providing information to bank regulators or the Justice Department regarding
possible violations of law or regulations by the bank, the agency or any official of the bank or agency.
Regulatory burden. Required the Treasury secretary and federal banking regulators to report to Congress a year after
enactment on laws and regulations that unduly limited the profitability of banks and on the need for changes in or repeal
of those laws. The report was to consider the degree to which changes might harm the safety and soundness of banks
or adversely affect consumer protections.
Miscellaneous, Studies
Savings and loan associations. Permitted thrifts that converted to federal bank charters to continue being treated as
savings associations, therefore subject to somewhat different regulation than other banks. They had to meet certain
conditions, including the so-called qualified thrift lender test, which was designed to concentrate a thrift's loans and other
assets in home mortgages and related loans. The law revised the test to reduce the total percentage of qualifying loans
from 70 percent over two years to 65 percent for nine out of every 12 months. The changes also permitted a larger
amount of non-housing loans and other assets to count toward the test and permitted federally chartered thrifts to hold
a larger share of consumer loans.
The law also made it easier for banks to acquire thrifts or thrift branches and allowed so-called non-bank banks to
acquire thrifts without regard to a statutory cap on annual growth by non-bank banks. The effect of the latter provision
was to permit commercial companies that acquired insured banks under a pre-1987 loophole in the Bank Holding
Company Act to greatly increase the size of their non-bank banks through thrift acquisitions.
Private deposit insurance. Required the FDIC to study and conduct a demonstration project, in which the agency
would seek to have private companies provide “reinsurance” of up to 10 percent of the liabilities at several banks.
Within 18 months of enactment, the FDIC was required to report its analysis of the project and its recommendations on
the feasibility of instituting a permanent private program to absorb some of the deposit insurance risk borne by the FDIC.
Uninsured deposit-taking. Required the FDIC to study and report to Congress within six months of enactment on the
feasibility and risk associated with allowing banks to accept both insured and uninsured deposits.
Payment of imputed interest on reserves study. Required the Fed, the FDIC and other federal banking regulators to
study the effects of paying interest on reserves that depository institutions were required to keep in Federal Reserve
banks. The study was to look at the consequences for the Federal Reserve System, the deposit insurance system and
depository institutions. It was due to Congress six months after enactment.
Federal Reserve lending to securities firms. Clarified that, in extraordinary circumstances, the Fed could lend from its
discount window to anyone, including securities firms, not just to banks. The law also made it somewhat easier for the
Fed to make such loans but retained an existing requirement that borrowers show that they needed the Fed's cash to
remain in business, could not borrow elsewhere and had secure collateral to back up the loans.
Rhode Island credit unions. Required the Treasury secretary to guarantee repayment of up to $180 million borrowed
by the state of Rhode Island to cover deposits in banks and credit unions that were not covered by federal deposit
insurance, provided certain conditions were met. To qualify, the loans had to be fully secured by a dedicated sales tax
or assets held by the state's deposit insurance corporation. The Treasury could assess a guarantee fee equal to one-
half of 1 percent of the outstanding guaranteed principal amount, computed daily.
Payments system protections. Clarified that a failed bank could not claim money due it through the federal system of
interbank payments and at the same time decline to make payments that it owed. Payments to a failed bank through the
system were limited to the net amount due in excess of payments that the failed bank owed.
Freedom National Bank. Required the FDIC to fully protect deposits placed in the defunct Freedom National Bank by
charitable and religious organizations. Freedom National, based in Harlem, New York City, held millions of dollars in
deposits from organizations such as the United Negro College Fund. When the bank failed in November 1990, the FDIC
could not find a buyer and was forced to liquidate it. As a result, deposits in excess of $100,000 were not fully protected;
the FDIC paid about 50 cents on the dollar for uninsured deposits.
Securities law statute of limitations. Reinstated securities fraud claims that had been dismissed under the terms of a
June 1991 Supreme Court decision in Lampf v. Gilbertson. The court established a uniform nationwide statute of
limitations for certain securities fraud cases; and in so doing foreclosed some pending cases. The law did not alter the
statute of limitations for cases not filed before the decision.
Secrecy ban. Prohibited the FDIC from agreeing not to disclose the terms of settlement of an action brought by the
FDIC in its capacity as conservator or receiver of a failed bank or thrift.
Credit Card Interest Cap Flares and Dies
Like a fleeting comet, the idea of Congress voting to mandate a nationwide cap on credit card interest rates flared
brightly for a week in mid-November and quickly disappeared.
Just days after the Senate voted in favor of such a cap — and House Democratic leaders rushed to sign on —
House Speaker Thomas S. Foley, D-Wash. went before television cameras on Nov. 18 to urge restraint. “I suggest
that the Banking Committee consider any action on credit card rates very, very carefully,” Foley-said. He added that
7/3/09 12:27 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 27 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110000&type=hitlist&num=1
that the Banking Committee consider any action on credit card rates very, very carefully,” Foley-said. He added that
a study of competition in rates “would be useful” and suggested that Congress might vote for one. But that did not
happen.
The furor was set off by a last-minute insertion in a Nov. 11 campaign fundraising speech, in which President Bush
called for lower credit card rates. Foley appeared to let Bush off the hook, saying, “I don't know that he anticipated
what would happen in the Senate.”
The Senate voted 74–19 for a rate cap Nov. 13, adopting an amendment by Alfonse M. D'Amato, R-N.Y. to a broader
bank overhaul bill (S 543). Foley and other Democratic leaders immediately predicted that the House would join the
Senate's action. (Vote 251, p. 33-S)
But in the days that followed, banks threatened to pull back credit cards from perhaps half of those who had them,
bank stocks tumbled, the obscure but huge market in securities backed by credit card debt was rocked, and the
Dow Jones industrial average plunged 120 points. The Nov. 15 drop was the fifth-largest numerical decline in the
Dow's history; however it could hardly be attributed solely to the credit card rate cap proposal; analysts said
weakness in bank stocks was a factor.
Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady appeared on the NBC News program “Meet the Press” on Nov. 17, calling
D'Amato's amendment, “wacky, senseless legislation.”
By the end of the week of Nov. 18, a House Banking subcommittee had scheduled, and then postponed indefinitely,
a credit card bill markup. Several members went to work to craft a bill calling for a study of rate caps that would
produce results — and not upset financial markets.
Reps. Esteban E. Torres, D-Calif. chairman of the Consumer Affairs Subcommittee, and Charles E. Schumer, D-N.Y.
developed a bill (HR 3860) requiring the General Accounting Office (GAO) to study interest-rate competitiveness
among credit card issuers and whether the interest rates were set artificially high to boost bank profits. The GAO
would have had to report in nine months.
If it were to find that the industry was not competitive, the president could within a nine-month period impose a rate
cap tied to the average price of six-month Treasury securities. The Torres-Schumer bill would have produced a cap
of 15.5 percent at the time it was drafted. The D'Amato cap, which was tied to the interest charged by the Internal
Revenue Service on overdue tax payments, would have produced a 14 percent rate cap at the time the amendment
was being considered.
No committee action on the Torres-Schumer bill was ever scheduled, and it did not surface as an option to
D'Amato's amendment when House and Senate conferees met on the banking bill. The D'Amato amendment was
quietly dropped in conference, without ever being discussed publicly.
House, Senate Banking Bills Compared
Following is a comparison of the way key issues were treated in three versions of the bank overhaul bill: the House
Banking Committee bill (HR 6 — H Rept 102–157, Part 1) approved June 28, amendments to HR 6 approved by
the House Energy and Commerce Committee Sept. 25, and a bill (S 543) approved by the Senate Banking
Committee on Aug. 2:
House
Banking
House Energy & Commerce Senate Banking
Bank
Ownership
Would permit any company to own a bank, ending legal restrictions
that effectively prohibited affiliations between commercial businesses
(including insurance and diversified financial companies) and banks.
Would retain existing law. Would retain existing law.
Glass-
Steagall
Repeal
Would effectively repeal the 1933 Glass-Steagall Act, which barred
most affiliations between banks and securities firms.
Essentially the same as House
Banking.
Essentially the same as
House Banking but would bar
mergers between the largest
banks and securities houses.
Fire Walls Would severely limit financial links between banks and their
securities affiliates. Banks generally could not finance the purchase
of securities underwritten by an affiliated securities firm or lend
money that would be used to pay principal,  interest or dividends, for
instance.
Similar to House Banking, but
tougher. If a bank's securities
affiliate issued stocks or bonds
for a company, the bank could
not lend to that company for any
purpose for three months
afterward. Regulators would have
some leeway to relax fire walls,
however.
Similar to House Banking.
The Federal Reserve could
relax fire walls beginning
three years after enactment.
Insurance Would roll back regulatory and judicial interpretations of current law
— in some cases still under legal challenge — that allow banks or
their affiliates some insurance sales and underwriting powers.
Existing law provisions that allowed only federally chartered banks
located in towns of less than 5,000 people to sell  insurance would
be tightened so that a bank could only sell  to people in that town or
in similar small towns in the same state. Also, only those state
banks or their affiliates currently in the business of selling insurance
out of state would be permitted to continue doing so; this would
permit a Delaware bank owned by Citicorp to market insurance
nationwide.
Would go further than House
Banking in rolling back existing
law by closing the Delaware
insurance sales loophole. Also,
consumer protections would be
imposed on bank insurance
activities, such as limits on
disclosure of customer
information and a ban on
soliciting borrowers for insurance
until loan applications had been
approved.
Would go further than House
Banking in rolling back
existing law. The town-of-
5,000 loophole would be
more tightly curtailed,
permitting sales only in the
town and not in adjacent rural
areas or in similar small
towns in the same state. The
Delaware insurance sales
loophole also would be
closed.
Interstate
Branching
Would permit a bank to open branches in any state where it could
own another separately chartered and capitalized bank. Existing
state laws limiting or barring interstate bank ownership would be
Would not affect interstate
branching provisions of HR 6.
Would permit interstate
ownership of existing banks
after one year and creation of
7/3/09 12:27 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 28 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110000&type=hitlist&num=1
state laws limiting or barring interstate bank ownership would be
overridden after three years.
after one year and creation of
new banks across state lines
after two years. Nationwide
branching would be allowed
after three years, but states
could vote to “opt out” of
branching.
Administration Bill Highlights
Following is a summary of the key points in the administration's banking industry bill. Most changes were to take
effect one to two years after enactment; some were to take effect in three years.
Deposit Insurance Reform
Insurance limits. Individual depositors would be protected to a maximum of $100,000 per institution, plus an
additional $100,000 coverage per institution for retirement savings. “Pass-through” coverage — such as multimillion-
dollar pension accounts previously insured to $100,000 per beneficiary — would be eliminated in most cases. So
would coverage for brokered deposits. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) would study the feasibility
of capping insurance at $100,000 per person systemwide.
Too big to fail. The FDIC would be explicitly prohibited from covering uninsured deposits in a failed bank unless
that would cost less than simply paying off insured deposits. The FDIC could not consider losses that might be
incurred at other institutions as a result of a bank's failure. But the Federal Reserve Board and the Treasury could
authorize the FDIC to protect all depositors if a bank failure would pose a “systemic risk.”
Risk-based premiums. The FDIC would have to assess insurance premiums based on a bank's relative riskiness,
determined principally by a bank's capitalization.
State-chartered banks. For the most part, state-chartered banks would be prohibited from making investments or
engaging in activities prohibited to federally chartered banks. The prohibition would extend to subsidiaries of state-
chartered banks. The FDIC could grant exceptions to this rule for well-capitalized banks.
Tighter supervision. New rules for bank examinations would be imposed, based on capital levels and an
institution's size. Poorly capitalized banks would be subject to prompt takeover by the FDIC.
Private insurance. The FDIC would have to conduct a pilot program to examine the opportunities for private
deposit “coinsurance” that would run in tandem with FDIC coverage.
Bank Insurance Fund Recapitalization
New borrowing authority. The FDIC would be permitted to borrow up to $25 billion from the Federal Reserve
System, to be repaid at Treasury security rates and secured by dedicated increases in bank insurance premiums.
The borrowed money could be used to cover losses due to failed banks or to assist troubled banks. The FDIC could
use its existing authority to borrow from Treasury to leverage other loans.
Premium limits. Bank insurance premiums would be capped at 30 cents per $100 in the aggregate; risk-based
premiums for individual institutions could exceed the cap.
Regulatory Restructuring
Regulators combined. Federal supervision of banks and savings and loan associations, now split among four
agencies, would be combined. Federally chartered banks, their holding companies and subsidiaries, and all savings
and loans would be supervised by a new Treasury Department agency, the Office of Depository Institutions
Supervision. State-chartered banks, their holding companies and subsidiaries would be supervised by the Federal
Reserve.
FDIC role. The FDIC would retain its authority to examine insured banks.
Credit unions. Credit unions would remain separately regulated and insured. They would have to write off over 12
years the 1 percent of deposits they maintain as reserves in the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund.
New Bank Powers
Holding companies. Two new kinds of companies would be created to own banks. Financial services holding
companies could directly own banks, insurance companies and securities houses. Banks themselves could not be
holding companies. Only financial services holding companies whose banks were well-capitalized could engage in
non-banking financial activities. Diversified holding companies could affiliate with any commercial enterprise and
could own well-capitalized banks but only indirectly, through financial services holding companies. All holding
companies would have to maintain their banks' capital requirements or divest.
Fire walls. Stiff limits would be put on loans from banks to their financial services affiliates to prevent unfair
competitive advantages and risk to the deposit-insurance system. Loans to affiliated commercial businesses would
be prohibited. Distinctions between insured and uninsured products of banks and their affiliates would have to be
made clear to consumers.
Insurance. Federally chartered banks could sell insurance directly, as opposed to through an affiliate, only where
7/3/09 12:27 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 29 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110000&type=hitlist&num=1
Insurance. Federally chartered banks could sell insurance directly, as opposed to through an affiliate, only where
state-chartered banks were permitted to do so. But states could not prevent banks from affiliating with insurance
companies.
Securities. Some securities activities now permitted to banks themselves would have to be transferred to affiliates.
Real estate. Real estate development and brokerage activities would not qualify as financial services, so banks
could affiliate with real estate firms only indirectly through diversified holding companies. State-chartered banks
could continue existing real estate brokerage activities.
Interstate banking. Financial services holding companies would be permitted to buy banks in any state. Moreover,
nationally and state-chartered banks could open initial branches in states other than where they are based. States
would continue to regulate additional authority to open branches.
Brady's Concern
Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady, in presenting the administration's plan to overhaul the financial services
industry on Feb. 5, talked about the need to relieve banks' stress and to put more money in the hands of
consumers and businesses by making banks more profitable.
But what Brady really had his eye on was the fact that U.S. banks were no longer the biggest in the world.
“What we're trying to do is something here that strengthens the American banking system, provides more services to
the consumer and makes sure that we do something about this situation here where the top bank in the United
States is 27th in the world.”
Not once but three times Brady pointed to a big chart showing the world's top 30 banks in 1969 and 1989. It
showed U.S. banks in the top three spots a generation ago, but none there today. Citibank, the largest in the
United States, was the 27th largest in the world at the end of 1990.
It was clear that rankled Brady. “You know,” he said, “if there's one chart that's stuck in my mind since the very
beginning of this study, that's it.”
Top Banks in 1969
1. Bank of America
2. Chase Manhattan Bank
3. First National City Bank
Top Banks in 1989
4. Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank
5. Sumitomo Bank
6. Mitsubishi Bank
Document Citation
"Congress Clears Slimmed-Down Banking Bill." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal91-1110000.
Originally published in CQ Almanac 1991 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1992).
http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal91-1110000 (accessed July 3, 2009).
Document ID: cqal91-1110000
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal91-1110000
© 1992, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
