2/8/10 2:20 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 1 of 3file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL101-1…0Independent%20Agencies%20Appropriations%20Act%201990.webarchive
The Library of Congress > THOMAS Home > Bills, Resolutions > Search Results
NEW SEARCH | HOME | HELP | ABOUT SUMMARIES
Print Subscribe Share/Save
H.R.2916 
Title: Making appropriations for the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban
Development, and for sundry independent agencies, boards, commissions, corporations, and
offices for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1990, and for other purposes. 
Sponsor: Rep Traxler, Bob [MI-8] (introduced 7/17/1989)      Cosponsors (None) 
Related Bills: H.RES.205, H.R.2117 
Latest Major Action: 11/9/1989 Became Public Law No: 101-144.
SUMMARY AS OF: 
10/25/1989--House receded and concurred with amendment.    (There are 5 other summaries)
Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent
Agencies Appropriations Act, 1990 - Title I: Department of Veterans Affairs - Makes
appropriations for FY 1990 to the Department of Veterans Affairs for: (1) the payment of
compensation benefits and readjustment benefits, veterans insurance and indemnities, the loan
guaranty and insurance operations, and direct loans for specially adapted housing; (2) medical
care facilities, medical and prosthetic research, medical administration, miscellaneous operating
expenses, and grants to the Republic of the Philippines for assistance to a medical center; and
(3) general operating expenses, the Office of the Inspector General, construction projects, the
parking garage revolving fund, grants for the construction of State extended care facilities, and
grants for the construction of State veterans cemeteries.
Makes funds available to assist the City of Sturgis, South Dakota, in improving a wastewater
treatment plant used by the Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Fort Meade, South
Dakota.
Authorizes the transfer of funds among specified appropriations.
Authorizes the use of appropriations to procure consultant services.
Makes certain appropriations available for the construction of any new hospital or home.
Prohibits the use of appropriations to hospitalize or examine non-beneficiaries, unless
reimbursement is made at rates determined by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
Authorizes the use of certain appropriations to pay prior year accrued obligations for certain
benefits.
Title II: Department of Housing and Urban Development - Makes appropriations for FY
1990 for the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for: (1) housing programs,
including contributions for assisted housing, renewal of expiring subsidy contracts, moderate
rehabilitation program, rental rehabilitation grants, congregate services, low-income housing
projects, housing counseling assistance, multi-family housing project subsidies, the emergency
shelter grants program, the transitional supportive housing demonstration program, grants for
supplemental assistance for facilities to assist the homeless, and housing administration funds;
(2) community development grants program; (3) the urban homesteading program; (4) research
and technology; (5) fair housing activities; and (6) management and administration, including
the Office of the Inspector General. Limits the amounts of specified loan obligations, including
guarantee commitments of the Government National Mortgage Association.
Makes community development funds available for: (1) a special project for infrastructure
development on Hawaiian home lands; (2) communities of Parshall and New Town, North
Dakota, for municipal services in connection with properties owned by the Fort Berthold Indian
Reservation Housing Authority; and (3) for West Valley City, Utah, for basic infrastructure in
connection with the West Ridge Commerce Industrial Park.
Authorizes the city of College Park, Maryland, to retain any categorical settlement grant funds,
urban renewal grant funds, and land disposition proceeds that remain after the financial closeout
of the Lakeland Urban Renewal Project and to use such funds and proceeds for the community
development block grant program.
Authorizes the city of Hartford, Connecticut, to retain any land disposition proceeds from the
financially closed-out Sheldon-Charter Oak Urban Renewal Project and to use such proceeds for a
community development block grant program.
Forgives certain accrued interest and requires return of interest paid by Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
in connection with certain public housing project funds.
Authorizes the Seattle Housing Authority to use specified project reserves for a program of
health care services for the elderly.
Amends the National Housing Act to modify the Federal Housing Authority (FHA) mortgage
insurance program.
Amends the Dire Emergency Supplemental Appropriations and Transfers, Urgent Supplementals,
2/8/10 2:20 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 2 of 3file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL101-1…0Independent%20Agencies%20Appropriations%20Act%201990.webarchive
and Correcting Enrollment Errors Act of 1989 to repeal the requirement that the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development review and report to the Congress on drug-related eviction
procedures.
Requires the Secretary to indemnify public housing agencies that receive certain assistance to
test and abate lead-based paint.
Sets aside funds for lower-income housing assistance for the Ganado Acres project in Arizona.
Title III: Independent Agencies - Makes appropriations for FY 1990 to the: (1) American
Battle Monuments Commission; (2) Consumer Product Safety Commission; (3) Court of Veterans
Appeals; (4) Department of Defense-Civil for cemeterial expenses, Army; (5) Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) for salaries and expenses, Office of Inspector General, research and
development, abatement, control and compliance, buildings and facilities, Hazardous Substance
Superfund Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund, and construction grants; (6) Executive
Office of the President for the Council on Environmental Quality and the Office of Environmental
Quality, the National Space Council, and the Office of Science and Technology Policy; (7) Federal
Emergency Management Agency for disaster relief, salaries and expenses, the Office of Inspector
General, emergency management planning and assistance, the National Flood Insurance Fund,
and the emergency food and shelter program; (8) General Services Administration for the
Consumer Information Center; (9) Department of Health and Human Services for the Office of
Consumer Affairs; (10) National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) for research and
development, space flight, control and data communications, construction of facilities, research
and program management and the Office of Inspector General; (11) National Credit Union
Administration for the obligations of the Central Liquidity Facility; (12) Interagency Council on
the Homeless for salaries and expenses; (13) National Science Foundation for research and
related activities, academic research facilities, the U.S. Antarctic logistical support activities, the
U.S. Antarctic Program, science education activities and the Office of Inspector General; (14)
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation; (15) Selective Service System; and (16) National
Institute of Building Sciences.
Makes funds available to NASA for the National Aerospace Plane.
Makes amounts deposited in the EPA Licensing and Other Services Fund from fees and charges
assessed and collected by the Administrator available to carry out the programs for which the
fees and charges were made.
Authorizes the Administrator to lease a portion of the Environmental Technology and Engineering
Center in Edison, New Jersey, to the New Jersey Institute of Technology.
Requires the NASA Administrator to establish an annual goal of at least eight percent of the total
value of contracts awarded in support of authorized programs, including the space station, to be
made available to small business concerns or other organizations owned or controlled by socially
and economically disadvantaged individuals, including historically Black colleges and universities
and minority educational institutions.
Makes grade retention provisions of law applicable to certain NASA employees who were
displaced by private sector positions.
Amends the Federal Credit Union Act to provide that the Community Development Credit Union
revolving loan fund is subject only to the rules and regulations prescribed by the National Credit
Union Administration Board.
Title IV: Corporations - Authorizes certain corporations and agencies of HUD to make
commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations, with specified exceptions. Limits, with
specified exceptions, new loan or mortgage purchase commitments to the extent expressly
provided in this Act.
Appropriates funds as necessary for the payment of expenditures of the Federal Savings and
Loan Insurance Corporation (FSLIC) Resolution Fund for which other funds available to the Fund
are insufficient. Requires the Chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to report
quarterly to the Committees on Appropriations on the expected total costs to the Fund in FY
1990.
Title V: General Provisions - Limits travel expenditures for the agencies listed in this Act to
the amounts set forth in the budget estimate, with specified exceptions. Permits the use of HUD
and Selective Service System appropriations for: (1) uniforms; (2) the hiring of passenger
vehicles; and (3) the employment of experts and consultants. Allows the use of HUD funds to
pay for legal services and facilities provided by specified agencies.
Prohibits, with specified exceptions, the use of appropriated funds: (1) beyond the current fiscal
year; (2) without a voucher describing the payees and services or specific statutory
authorization; (3) for transportation between the domicile and place of employment of any officer
or employee; (4) for payments to recipients that do not share in the cost of conducting research
not specifically solicited by the Government; (5) for consultants paid in excess of the GS-18 rate;
and (6) for compensation of non-Federal parties intervening in regulatory or adjudicatory
proceedings. Prohibits the use of funds appropriated for personnel compensation and benefits for
other object classifications in the budget estimates with specified exceptions.
Limits expenditures for consulting services to contracts which are a matter of public record and
included in a publicly available list of: (1) contracts entered into within the past two years; and
(2) contracts on which performance has not been completed.
2/8/10 2:20 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 3 of 3file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL101-1…0Independent%20Agencies%20Appropriations%20Act%201990.webarchive
Prohibits any executive agency from expending appropriations under this Act for a contract for
services unless the agency: (1) complies with the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act; and
(2) requires reports prepared pursuant to such contract to disclose information about the
contract and the contractor.
Prohibits the use of funds appropriated by this Act to: (1) provide a personal cook, chauffeur, or
other personal servant to any officer or employee of any agency or department; or (2) procure
automobiles with an EPA estimated miles per gallon average of less than 22 miles per gallon.
Requires FY 1990 pay raises to be absorbed within the levels appropriated in this Act.
Limits the number of noncareer, limited term, and limited emergency appointees to the Senior
Executive Service in HUD.
Sets forth reductions in the funding of specified accounts and activities.
Extends the authority of the Department of Veterans Affairs to operate a leave transfer program
for employees through December 31, 1989.
Prohibits the obligation of certain funds to any municipality that fails to adopt or enforce a policy
prohibiting the use of excessive force by law enforcement agencies against individuals engaged
in nonviolent civil rights demonstrations.
THOMAS Home | Contact | Accessibility | Legal | FirstGov
