7/3/09 11:55 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 22http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal89-1138219&type=hitlist&num=11
Savings and Loan Industry
1996 GOP Wins Passage of Banking Bill
1995 Plan to Bolster Thrift Fund Dies
1993 Thrift Cleanup Financing
Provisions
1993 Hill Votes More Funds for Thrift
Bailout
1992 S&L Bailout Funding Dries Up
1991 Thrift Bailout Fund Replenished
Twice
1990 Bill To Add Thrift Bailout Funds
Dies
1989 Sweeping Thrift Bailout Bill
Cleared
1989 Lincoln Savings Scandal Examined
in Hearings
1988 Thrift Crisis Debated, but Little
Action Taken
1987 Fears About S&L Insurance Fund
Spur Rescue
1982 Savings and Loan Aid, Banking
Law Changes
1981 Aid for Savings & Loans
1980 Savings and Loan Takeovers
1973 Interest On Savings Deposits
1967 S & L Holding Companies
1967 Federal Savings Banks
1966 Interest Rates on Deposits at
Banks Limited
1954 Savings, Loan Branches
Banking
Congressional Ethics
Sweeping Thrift Bailout Bill Cleared
An article from CQ Almanac 1989
Document Outline
Background
Final Provisions
Senate Committee Action
Senate Floor Action
House Banking Committee Action
Other House Committees
House Floor Action
Conference
Bill Cleared
Features
Acting on a proposal presented by President Bush two and a half weeks after
his inauguration, Congress took just six months to clear the most sweeping
overhaul of laws governing savings and loan institutions in 55 years. The bill,
aimed at cleaning up a $100 billion-plus mess in the thrift industry, cleared in
the early hours of Aug. 5 and was signed into law four days later.
Bush signed the bailout measure Aug. 9, promising an end to the thrift crisis
and renewed stability for the nation's financial system. Within hours, the
stroke of his pen had set in motion machinery designed to put an end to
losses at insolvent thrifts amounting to as much as $20 million daily.
The Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act (HR 1278
— PL 101 - 73 ) dramatically restructured federal regulation of thrifts and
provided $50 billion over three years to close down or sell off hundreds of
insolvent savings institutions.
It abolished the independent Federal Home Loan Bank Board that had
supervised the crisis-ridden thrift industry and dismantled the bankrupt
Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation (FSLIC) that had insured
thrift deposits. A new agency was created in the Treasury Department to
charter and supervise thrifts, and the task of insuring thrift deposits was given
to a new insurance fund established under the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (FDIC), the agency that insured bank deposits.
The law also increased the amount of capital, or net worth, that thrifts were required to maintain. Lawmakers hoped
that if investors were forced to put more of their own money at risk, they would be reluctant to make the kind of ill-
advised investments that had driven many thrifts into bankruptcy.
Background
The drive to salvage the failing thrift industry began Feb. 6, when Bush unveiled the broad outlines of a plan to
borrow $50 billion to close down or sell 350-plus sick savings and loans. Bush coupled the financing scheme with
an overhaul of the regulatory system to ensure that “the situation is not repeated again.”
The crisis in the industry had become clear by late 1988, but neither President Reagan nor the 100th Congress had
attempted to solve it. M. Danny Wall, chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, said repeatedly in 1988 that
a taxpayer bailout would not be needed and that a $10.8 billion infusion of cash into the FSLIC approved by
Congress in August 1987 (PL 100-86) might be sufficient to solve the problem. (1987 Almanac p. 628)
But Wall's optimism was not widely shared. A General Accounting Office (GAO) report released in May 1988 said
that 505 of the nation's 3,147 thrifts were insolvent at the end of 1987. Of those, 181 were in the Southwest, where
the depressed Oil Patch and farm economy had hit the industry hardest. The report said another 435 thrifts were
barely solvent in 1987 and risked going into bankruptcy in 1988. Other analysts offered assessments that were even
grimmer.
 
7/3/09 11:55 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 22http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal89-1138219&type=hitlist&num=11
With the funds that were available, the bank board tried to keep the problem from spinning out of control in 1988,
primarily by selling sick thrifts — an approach the bank board said was cheaper than closing them down and paying
off depositors. To entice investors, the bank board provided what turned out to be billions of dollars in tax breaks to
purchasers of the failed institutions; many of the breaks were given out in a flurry of deals signed in December.
In testimony before the House Budget Committee in January 1989, Wall said the FSLIC had closed 205 thrifts in
1988, 75 of them in December, at a cost estimated to exceed $32 billion. In addition, Wall calculated that breaks
given to thrift purchasers as part of the deals could result in a tax loss of $5.3 billion.
Virtually all of the $32 billion was in the form of 10-year notes and long-term guarantees of the book value or
anticipated yields of questionable loans included in the deals. To cover those notes and guarantees, Wall said the
FSLIC had committed nearly all of its anticipated funds. Without a new infusion of money, the FSLIC would no
longer be able to sell off bankrupt thrifts to stanch the growing losses. At least 350 insolvent savings and loans
were still operating and waiting to be closed.
While they remained in operation, sick institutions continued taking new FSLIC-insured deposits, increasing the
ultimate cost of a government bailout. To attract those deposits, they offered inflated interest rates, forcing healthier
thrifts to boost their own rates to compete for depositors.
When Bush unveiled his plan, there was widespread speculation that it would be gutted by the thrift industry, which
had a history of powerful and successful lobbying on Capitol Hill. Early complaints from industry trade groups
receded, however, as publicity grew about the savings and loan mess and about the fraud and incompetence that
had exacerbated it. When the final votes came in August, the industry was virtually invisible on Capitol Hill.
The thrift bill began moving through both the House (at subcommittee level) and Senate (in committee) the week of
April 3. The House Banking Subcommittee on Financial Institutions Supervision, Regulation and Insurance and the
full Banking Committee spent four days each on the bill and considered a long list of amendments. Several other
House committees then weighed in before the measure went to the floor, where it passed June 15.
On the Senate side, the full Banking committee reached general agreement in closed-door meetings and quickly
approved the bill April 12. Action on the Senate floor was also swift, with dozens of amendments rolled together at
the end and adopted by voice vote. The bill passed the Senate April 19.
As the thrift bill moved around Capitol Hill, it grew increasingly tougher on the industry. The two issues that received
the most attention were capital standards and financing.
Capital Standards: Under Bush's original proposal, thrifts would have been required to maintain capital standards at
least as stringent as those for banks. The Bush proposal set no specific capital requirements, however. Instead, the bill
merely tied the thrift standard in a broad way to that for banks. Generally, under rules set to go into effect in 1991,
national banks were to be required to have a minimum 6 percent ratio of capital to assets, based on generally accepted
accounting standards. By 1993, banks were to have 8 percent capital based on the relative riskiness of their loans and
other assets.
The final bill adopted those standards, but added that, within 120 days of enactment, thrifts would have to maintain
3 percent “core” capital. Half of that had to be “tangible” capital — cash, stocks and assets that could easily be
converted to cash.
Thrifts carrying supervisory “good will” on their books were required to write it off as a component of core capital
over five years. Good will could not be counted as tangible capital. Several hundred healthy thrifts had been given
supervisory good will by federal regulators in the mid-1980s in return for buying failing thrifts with no financial
assistance from the government. Good will is essentially the difference between the purchase price of a thrift and its
worth as a going concern.
Financing. Bush originally proposed that the $50 billion needed over the subsequent three years to close down
insolvent thrifts be borrowed by a new off-budget agency, the Resolution Funding Corporation (RefCorp), and not
counted as part of the deficit.
The administration argued that an on-budget financing plan would increase the federal deficit and require a waiver
of the Gramm-Rudman anti-deficit law, setting an untenable precedent for future big-ticket spending proposals. It
also warned that financial markets would react negatively to an effort to avoid Gramm-Rudman.
Those who favored an on-budget approach rejected both notions, arguing that the administration's plan to keep the
financing off the books was simply a less honest Gramm-Rudman dodge and that neither plan was likely to upset
the financial markets.
The chief argument in favor of an on-budget plan was that to have the Treasury Department (instead of a new, off-
budget agency) sell the necessary bonds would save taxpayers an estimated $150 million a year in interest costs,
or $4.5 billion over the 30-year life of the financing plan.
The Senate backed the Bush plan, but the House strongly disagreed. In its version of the bill, the $50 billion would
have been borrowed from the Treasury and put on budget; it would not have been counted under Gramm-Rudman.
Conferees charged with reconciling the House and Senate versions decided to go with the House approach.
Bush then sent a message to the Hill warning that he would veto the on-budget approach. Conferees reconvened
7/3/09 11:55 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 22http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal89-1138219&type=hitlist&num=11
Bush then sent a message to the Hill warning that he would veto the on-budget approach. Conferees reconvened
and struck a compromise: $20 billion was put on the budget in fiscal 1989 (Gramm-Rudman calculations had
already been made for fiscal 1989, so it did not count under the anti-deficit law for that year); $30 billion was to be
borrowed off budget in fiscal 1990 and 1991.
Final Provisions
As enacted, the thrift bill:
Financing
Resolution Funding Corporation. Created an off-budget agency, the Resolution Funding Corporation (RefCorp), to
sell to the public $30 billion in 30-year bonds in fiscal 1990 and 1991 to pay part of the cost of closing down or selling
off insolvent thrifts. RefCorp was placed under the supervision of an oversight board composed of the head of finance
for the Federal Home Loan Bank system and two presidents of regional Federal Home Loan Banks. The $30 billion
borrowed by RefCorp was not to be counted as part of the federal budget.
The principal amount borrowed by RefCorp was not guaranteed by the federal government; it was to be repaid
through the purchase of low-cost zero-coupon bonds that matured at the same time and in the same amount as the
obligations incurred by RefCorp. The cost of the zero-coupon bonds was to be paid by using about $1.3 billion in
retained earnings of the regional Federal Home Loan Banks (whose dividend-paying stock was held by the nation's
thrifts) and about $2.1 billion in deposit-insurance premiums paid by thrifts.
Treasury would guarantee repayment of the interest owed on the RefCorp borrowing, and pay a major part of it. But
part of the cost was to be paid from earnings of the regional Federal Home Loan Banks and part from the proceeds
of assets seized from failed thrifts and sold to the public.
Fiscal 1989 Financing. Authorized the Treasury to pay $18.8 billion immediately to close down insolvent thrifts from the
date of enactment through Sept. 30, 1989, the end of the fiscal years. An additional $1.2 billion would be paid
immediately by the regional Federal Home Loan Banks and drawn from their retained earnings. The combined $20
billion would count as part of the federal budget when it was spent, thereby increasing the fiscal 1989 deficit by that
amount.
Resolution Trust Corporation. Created a new on-budget agency, the Resolution Trust Corporation (RTC), to take
possession of all thrifts that were insolvent on Jan. 1, 1989, but had not been put into receivership by the FSLIC by that
date. The RTC was also to take possession of any thrifts that became insolvent and were put into receivership within
three years of the date of enactment. The RTC was to manage and dispose of the assets of thrifts in its possession, and
automatically terminate operations not later than Dec. 31, 1996.
Money for the RTC's operations was to be provided from the $20 billion provided in 1989 by the Treasury and the
Federal Home Loan Banks, from the $30 billion in RefCorp bond sales and from proceeds of the sale of assets
seized from failed thrifts. In addition, the RTC was given authority to issue promissory notes or other obligations
equal to 85 percent of the market value of assets held by RTC, plus available cash and that portion of authorized
RefCorp borrowing not yet used. RTC obligations were to be guaranteed by the federal government. Further, the
RTC could borrow up to $5 billion from the Treasury. All proceeds from the sale of assets not needed by the RTC to
close insolvent thrifts were to be paid to RefCorp.
When the RTC was terminated, its assets and liabilities were to be transferred to a new FSLIC Resolution Fund
(also created by the bill); the net proceeds of those remaining assets were to be paid to RefCorp.
The RTC was to be overseen by a board chaired by the secretary of the Treasury. The board would include the
chairman of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors, the secretary of housing and urban development, and two
private citizens with experience in real estate or finance appointed by the president for three-year terms and
confirmed by the Senate.
The board of directors of the FDIC was to serve as the board of directors for the RTC, and the FDIC would serve as
the RTC's day-to-day manager.
The RTC was required to consider the conditions of local real-estate markets in determining how to sell its holdings;
it was required to seek to maximize the return on its holdings. A national advisory board was to be established, and
no fewer than six additional advisory boards established to consult on the disposition of real estate in economically
distressed areas.
FSLIC Resolution Fund. Created a separate fund administered by the FDIC called the FSLIC Resolution Fund, to take
possession of all thrifts put into receivership by the FSLIC prior to Jan. 1, 1989, all assets seized from failed thrifts prior
to that date, and all obligations of the FSLIC to the acquirers of failed thrifts — including notes and guarantees relating
to the value and return of assets sold to the acquirers of failed thrifts. The FSLIC Resolution Fund was charged with
liquidating or selling any thrifts in receivership and managing and selling the assets it acquired from the FSLIC or from
seized thrifts.
Money for the FSLIC Resolution Fund's operations would come from the proceeds of the sale of bonds by the
Financing Corporation, created in 1987 to recapitalize the FSLIC, and proceeds of the sale of its acquired assets. If
necessary, the Treasury would make up any shortfall. The bill specified that the FSLIC Resolution Fund would
7/3/09 11:55 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 22http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal89-1138219&type=hitlist&num=11
necessary, the Treasury would make up any shortfall. The bill specified that the FSLIC Resolution Fund would
terminate upon the disposition of all its assets, and any net proceeds would be paid to the Treasury (except for
proceeds from assets transferred to the FSLIC Resolution Fund from the RTC, which would be paid to RefCorp).
Taxpayer Contributions. Obligated the Treasury to contribute the first $18.8 billion used to close insolvent thrifts, to
pay interest on the money borrowed by RefCorp (which technically would be owed to the Treasury) and to cover
obligations that the FSLIC made prior to the date of enactment to the purchasers of failed thrifts. Treasury was also
required to contribute at least $16 billion through 1999 to re-establish reserves in the Savings Association Insurance
Fund (SAIF), a new deposit-insurance fund to be created to replace the FSLIC. Total taxpayer contributions through
1999 were projected by the Treasury Department to be about $80 billion.
Thrift Industry Contributions. Increased thrift industry deposit-insurance premiums for three years, from 1991-93, to
generate additional income for the RTC and the SAIF. Retained earnings of the Federal Home Loan Bank system plus
thrift premium income were to be given to the RTC and used by RefCorp to purchase zero-coupon bonds. The bill
required an additional $300 million a year of Federal Home Loan Bank system earnings paid to RefCorp for 30 years,
starting in 1992, to cover some interest expenses.
Total thrift industry contributions through 1999 (including costs associated with bonds sold by the Financing
Corporation created in 1987) were projected by the Treasury Department to be about $33 billion.
Thrift Regulation
New Insurance Funds. Abolished the FSLIC, previously under the control of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, and
created the SAIF, a new deposit-insurance system for thrifts.
The SAIF was to be controlled by the FDIC. Existing bank insurance operations that were under the FDIC were to
be placed under the Bank Insurance Fund (BIF), another new entity created under the FDIC.
Although both the BIF and the SAIF were to be administered by the FDIC, insurance premiums from banks and
thrifts would go only into their respective funds, and the funds would be kept separate. Just as thrift insurance
premiums would be increased for a time under the bill, bank premiums also would be increased, on Jan. 1, 1990,
and again on Jan. 1, 1991. The FDIC was authorized to adjust bank or thrift insurance premiums higher or lower as
necessary to build insurance-fund reserves until they equaled at least 1.25 percent of total insured deposits, and, if
the FDIC board deemed it necessary, until the reserves equaled 1.5 percent of total insured deposits.
Whenever the reserves reached the level deemed necessary, the FDIC was required to pay rebates to banks or
thrifts.
Thrift industry insurance premiums were to begin decreasing in 1994 and be equalized with those of banks by 1998.
The FDIC would be controlled by a newly created, five-member board of directors. The comptroller of the currency,
the director of a new Office of Thrift Supervision created to issue federal thrift charters, and three private citizens
nominated by the president and confirmed by the Senate were to serve on the board. The private citizens were to
serve six-year terms; one was to be designated as chairman for a five-year term, and one designated as vice
chairman. The chairman and members of the FDIC on the date of enactment automatically became the chairman
and members of the new FDIC board.
Risk-Based Premiums. Required the FDIC to study the idea of basing premiums on the relative riskiness of the
activities of depository institutions, and to report back to Congress by Jan. 1, 1991, including any recommendations for
implementing such a system.
FDIC Borrowing. Allowed the FDIC to borrow up to $5 billion from the Treasury. In addition, the FDIC was authorized to
issue promissory notes and other guarantees equal to 90 percent of the net worth of the FDIC insurance funds. Such
notes and guarantees were to be expressly backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government.
Insurance Fund Cross-Guarantees. Made insured institutions liable to the FDIC for any losses to the insurance funds
incurred by their insured affiliates or subsidiaries. This cross-guarantee did not apply for five years after enactment to
losses incurred by an institution insured by one insurance fund (either the BIF or the SAIF), if its affiliate or subsidiary
were insured by the other fund.
Exit Moratorium. Prohibited for five years thrifts from seeking to change their charters to those of banks (or, in certain
instances, savings banks) and moving their deposit-insurance coverage from the SAIF to the BIF. However, thrifts were
allowed to sell up to 35 percent of their deposits over five years to banks. Entrance and exit fees for allowed
conversions were required during and after the moratorium.
Thrifts were allowed to convert to bank charters, provided they continued to be insured by the SAIF during the
moratorium period. And banks that were permitted to merge with thrifts during the moratorium were required to pay
insurance premiums to the SAIF for that portion of their deposits that originated with the thrifts.
Restructuring of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board. Separated the existing chartering and credit functions of the
bank board. The Office of Thrift Supervision was created under the Treasury secretary to charter federal savings and
loan associations and federal savings banks, and to set capital standards for federally and state-chartered savings
institutions. The new agency was roughly parallel to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which chartered
national banks. The Office of Thrift Supervision was made the primary federal regulator for state-chartered thrifts and for
7/3/09 11:55 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 22http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal89-1138219&type=hitlist&num=11
national banks. The Office of Thrift Supervision was made the primary federal regulator for state-chartered thrifts and for
thrift holding companies.
The Office of Thrift Supervision was headed by a director; M. Danny Wall, the chairman of the Federal Home Loan
Bank Board on the date of enactment, automatically became director of the Office of Thrift Supervision.
Another independent entity, the Federal Housing Finance Board, was created to oversee the credit operations of the
12 regional Federal Home Loan Banks. It was to be headed by a five-member board of directors appointed by the
president and confirmed by the Senate to seven-year terms; the secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban
Development was automatically a member. The makeup of the 14-member board of directors at each of the Home
Loan Banks was altered to require that the eight elected thrift-industry representatives come from well-capitalized
thrifts, and two of the six directors appointed by the Federal Housing Finance Agency represent consumer or
community groups.
‘Qualified Thrift Lender’ Test. Tightened the “qualified thrift lender” test used to determine whether a depository
institution was eligible for tax benefits and access to low-interest Federal Home Loan Bank advances. The previous
requirement that 60 percent of a thrift's loans be generally for home financing was stiffened to 70 percent. Also, thrifts
were required to maintain 55 percent of their assets in a pool of loans and investments that was more closely connected
to home financing and improvement than previously under the 60 percent test. Consumer loans and some other non-
residential investments counted toward the 70 percent limit. Also, the 70 percent test was to be measured against all of
a thrift's assets except its premises and furnishings, liquid assets such as reserves required by regulators, and “good
will.” The new test was to take effect July 1, 1991.
A thrift that failed to meet the qualified lender test would have to convert to a more restrictive bank charter or remain
a thrift and limit its investments and activities to those of a national bank; in either case, it would remain insured by
the SAIF and lose its access to Federal Home Loan Bank advances.
Exemptions from the qualified thrift lender test applied to certain mutual savings banks and thrifts in Puerto Rico.
The bill authorized banks and credit unions to borrow from Federal Home Loan Banks for the purpose of originating
mortgages. Existing law contained an outright ban on such borrowing by banks and credit unions.
Capital Requirements. Left to the Office of Thrift Supervision determination of capital standards for thrifts, but set some
statutory minimums. All thrifts were required to meet stiffer, risk-based capital standards “no less stringent” than the
standards regulators required for national banks.
In any event, thrifts were required to maintain not less than a 3 percent ratio of “core” capital to assets, as defined
for national banks (which accounted for some intangible assets). Under the bill, core capital for thrifts also included
90 percent of the market value of a thrift's purchased mortgage-servicing rights. Thrifts also were required to
maintain 1.5 percent tangible capital — cash, securities, assets easily converted to cash, or 90 percent of the
market value of purchased mortgage-servicing rights. Thrifts that had so-called supervisory good will — an
intangible asset — on their books as of April 12, 1989, were allowed to count that as core capital for five years and
as risk-based capital for 20 years. Supervisory good will was not to be counted as tangible capital.
Generally, under rules for national banks that were to be in effect in 1991, thrifts would have to have a minimum 6
percent ratio of capital to assets, based on generally accepted accounting principles. By 1993, they would have to
have 8 percent capital, based on the relative riskiness of their loans. Home mortgages, for instance, were
considered low-risk; in computing an institution's asset base for determining the dollar value of required capital,
mortgage loans were to be weighted at only half their value.
The new standards were set to take effect 120 days after enactment; thrifts that did not meet the new standards
were to have an additional 60 days to submit business plans for meeting the standards.
Prior to Jan. 1, 1991, the Office of Thrift Supervision was authorized to restrict the ability of thrifts that did not meet
the capital standards to make new loans, and such thrifts were required to operate under an agency-approved
business plan for increasing capital. After 1990, thrifts that did not meet capital standards would not be allowed to
make new loans, except that the Office of Thrift Supervision might allow such thrifts to make new, low-risk loans
equal to the amount of interest credited on deposits, roughly 5 percent to 7 percent a year. The new loans would
have to be fully capitalized.
After 1990, thrifts that did not meet the capital requirements were to be put under supervisory agreements by the
Office of Thrift Supervision that might limit the payment of dividends or compensation. Thrifts that were operated in a
safe and sound manner and showed profitability might seek an exemption from such supervisory agreements, but
would have to operate under approved business plans.
Capital Rules for Subsidiaries. Required state-chartered thrifts that operated subsidiaries engaged in activities not
permitted to national banks to subtract from their capital base the value of all loans to and other investments in those
subsidiaries. Such subsidiaries had to be independently capitalized. Capital committed to existing subsidiary functions
not permitted for national banks had to be written off over five years. This rule did not apply to subsidiaries engaged
solely in mortgage banking, or to certain subsidiary depository institutions. Where a thrift had not subtracted from capital
its subsidiary investments, the assets and liabilities of that subsidiary had to be consolidated with those of the thrift itself
for purposes of determining the thrift's capital.
Accounting Standards. Required all federal bank and thrift regulatory agencies to develop within a year of enactment
uniform accounting standards to be used in assessing whether banks and thrifts were meeting the capital standards
required by law and regulation. Such standards did not have to be identical, and could vary based on differences in the
7/3/09 11:55 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 22http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal89-1138219&type=hitlist&num=11
required by law and regulation. Such standards did not have to be identical, and could vary based on differences in the
operations of banks and thrifts. Bank and thrift regulatory agencies were required to report annually to Congress about
their accounting standards and where and how they differed.
Federally Chartered Thrifts. Altered, and in most cases reduced, the amount of a thrift's loan portfolio that might be
invested in commercial real estate from 40 percent, as under prior law, to four times its capital (allowing, for example, 24
percent of a thrift's loans to be in commercial real estate, if it had 6 percent capital). No thrift would be required to divest
commercial real-estate loans that exceeded the limit allowed by the bill.  Except for limits on “junk” bonds (see below),
other existing-law limits on the lending activities of federally chartered thrifts were not changed.
State-Chartered Thrifts. Restricted state-chartered thrifts from engaging directly in activities prohibited to federally
chartered thrifts or investing in amounts above those allowed to federally chartered thrifts, except in very limited
circumstances, such as where the thrift was acting only as agent for its customers.
This prohibition particularly applied to equity investments in real estate or stocks, except for investments in service
corporations, and included transactions — in the form of loans, for example — that could be construed as equity
investments.
Additional activities beyond those available to federal thrifts would generally be permitted only if the thrift fully met
capital standards and the FDIC determined that the activities would not pose a significant risk that the insurance
fund would suffer a loss.
Thrifts were required to divest their prohibited equity holdings as quickly as possible and not later than July 1, 1994.
Junk Bonds. Prohibited any thrift, federally or state-chartered, from investing in non-investment grade or junk bonds,
directly or through a subsidiary. Junk bonds were those not rated in one of the four highest investment categories by at
least one nationally recognized rating service, but did not include securities issued by the Federal National Mortgage
Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and the Government National Mortgage Association.
Separately capitalized affiliates of thrifts were permitted to invest without limit in junk bonds, as were separately
capitalized subsidiaries of mutual thrift institutions (which typically were not owned by holding companies and had no
affiliates). Thrifts were required to divest their junk bond holdings as quickly as possible and not later than July 1,
1994. Federally chartered thrifts previously were prohibited from holding more than 11 percent of their assets in junk
bonds.
Brokered Deposits. Prohibited a bank or thrift that did not meet minimum capital standards from accepting so-called
brokered deposits, which typically were large — nearing the $100,000 maximum on insured accounts — and were
placed by securities firms or other agents seeking the highest interest rates among insured depository institutions. The
FDIC was permitted to waive this rule on a case-by-case basis, upon a finding that the acceptance of brokered deposits
would not constitute an “unsafe” or “unsound” practice.
Loan Limits. Applied to thrifts the national bank standard of 15 percent of capital for unsecured loans to a single
borrower. The bill made exceptions for loans of up to $500,000 and loans of up to 50 percent of capital to aid the sale
of real estate acquired by the thrift through foreclosure.
Thrift Lending to Affiliates. Prohibited thrifts from investing in or making loans to, or for the benefit of, another firm
affiliated with the thrift through a holding company to the same extent that banks were restricted from such activities.
Generally, loans to a single affiliate would not be allowed to exceed 10 percent of capital, and loans to all affiliates
would not be allowed to exceed 20 percent of capital. Also, loans would have to be on terms as favorable to the thrift as
would loans to a third party. The Office of Thrift Supervision was not permitted to issue more stringent standards, except
that standards for loans to a mortgage-banking affiliate could not be any more stringent than applicable standards for a
bank's mortgage-banking affiliate.
Consumer and Housing Issues
‘Redlining.’ Expanded the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975 to require all mortgage lenders to collect and report
information on the race, gender and income level of loan applicants and recipients. The additional data was required
beginning Dec. 31, 1989. In addition, the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 was amended to require federal
financial regulators to disclose summary evaluations and descriptive ratings of institutions under the act. Such
disclosures were required after July 1, 1990.
Limits on Advances. Required the Federal Housing Finance Board to adopt regulations within two years limiting an
institution's ability to receive Federal Home Loan Bank system advances, based on the institution's compliance with the
Community Reinvestment Act, its record of lending to first-time home buyers, and its record of lending for low- and
moderate-income housing.
Low-Income Mortgages. Required each Federal Home Loan Bank to set aside a portion of its annual earnings to
subsidize low-income mortgages. The total from all 12 Home Loan Banks committed to this program had to be 5
percent of earnings or at least $50 million a year in calendar years 1990-93; 6 percent of earnings or at least $75
million in 1994; and 10 percent of earnings or at least $100 million a year thereafter.
Each Home Loan Bank was required to appoint an advisory committee drawn from local community and housing
organizations to advise on how best to use these mortgage subsidies. These mortgages were to be used to finance
houses purchased by families with incomes of 80 percent or less of the median in a given area, or multifamily
dwellings where 20 percent of the units were permanently set aside for families with incomes at 50 percent or less
7/3/09 11:55 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 22http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal89-1138219&type=hitlist&num=11
dwellings where 20 percent of the units were permanently set aside for families with incomes at 50 percent or less
of a given area's median.
Each Federal Home Loan Bank was also required to develop a program for making moderate-income mortgage
loans to families with incomes equal to 115 percent or less of a given area's median, and loans to finance
commercial and economic development projects that would benefit low- and moderate-income persons.
RTC Right of First Refusal. Gave state and local government and non-profit housing agencies, and families whose
incomes were less than 115 percent of the median in a given area, a 90-day right to purchase certain low-cost single-
family residential properties acquired by the RTC from failed thrifts. State and local government and non-profit housing
agencies would have a 45-day right to purchase certain low-cost multifamily residential properties, provided that a
sufficient number of units were maintained for low-income persons at very low rents for the life of the property.
Single-family residences might be sold at prices below their “net realizable market value,” if necessary to expedite
the sale or aid a lower-income family; multifamily properties had to be sold at or above their market value. The RTC
might make loans at market rates to qualified purchasers.
Bank Fees Study. Required the Federal Reserve Board to report annually to Congress on the scope of banking
services being offered by financial institutions and any change in fees charged consumers for such services. The study
was to be based on a representative geographic and size-of-institution sample of banks and thrifts.
Enforcement
Early Intervention. Permitted the FDIC to suspend deposit insurance on new deposits received by a thrift whose
tangible capital fell to zero. Such action might be taken without administrative hearings, but would be subject to later
judicial review. This provision did not apply to a thrift whose tangible capital was deemed to be zero solely because it
was capitalized only with supervisory good will. Such thrifts would be subject to enhanced FDIC supervision, however.
Civil. Increased civil penalties in cases where a bank, thrift or credit union (or an individual connected to the institution)
violated regulations or engaged in an unsafe or unsound practice to $25,000 per day, or to $1 million per day in the
case of knowing and reckless violations.
For lesser violations, where an institution's or individual's practices did not constitute an immediate risk of loss to the
deposit-insurance system or to the safety and soundness of the institution, the fine would be limited to $5,000 per
day.
The bill also increased the authority of bank, thrift and credit-union regulators to issue cease-and-desist orders, or to
take other steps to prevent unsafe and unsound operations. And it provided that an individual barred from working in
one type of insured financial institution automatically would be barred from working in an insured financial institution
regulated by a different agency, even when the second agency had not taken action against the individual.
Civil penalties for theft, fraud, embezzlement or the like were increased to $1 million per day, the amount embezzled
or otherwise “misapplied,” or $5 million, whichever was greater. Legal actions to recover such civil penalties had to
be initiated by the attorney general.
Criminal. Increased the penalties for an individual convicted of embezzlement, theft, defrauding a federal banking
agency or accepting gifts in return for procuring loans to a maximum fine of $1 million (from the previous maximum of
$5,000) and a maximum prison sentence of 20 years (previously five years), or both. The statute of limitations on
banking fraud was extended from five years to 10 years upon enactment.
A person previously barred from working in a financial institution who violated that order was subject to a maximum
fine of $1 million, a maximum prison term of five years, or both.
RICO. Expanded the application of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) to cover bank fraud.
This provision relaxed certain statute-of-limitation requirements, permitted seizures of property deemed to have been
involved in the fraud and permitted federal and private civil suits for treble damages in the case of such crimes.
Grand Jury Information. Authorized the disclosure of information developed in grand jury investigations to federal
banking regulators in certain narrow circumstances, such as for developing civil damage cases involving financial
institution fraud. Courts might order release of such information upon a finding of substantial need.
Justice Department Activities. Authorized $65 million annually for fiscal 1990-92 for the prosecution of financial
institution crimes and $10 million annually for those years for prosecution of civil violations, in addition to other sums
authorized for the Justice Department.
The Justice Department was required to establish within 120 days of enactment a special fraud prosecution office in
northern Texas, to pursue crimes stemming from the thrift crisis in that state through 1992. The bill also authorized
$10 million annually for fiscal 1990-92 for court-related expenses due to increased prosecutions.
Miscellaneous
Appraisal Standards. Required bank and thrift regulatory agencies to establish minimum standards for the
performance of real-estate appraisals.
7/3/09 11:55 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 22http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal89-1138219&type=hitlist&num=11
Government Audits. Authorized the GAO to audit all  banking operations referred to in the bill,  including those of the
RTC and RefCorp and of private parties that contracted with or received assistance from the government under the
auspices of the bill.  The Federal Reserve would not be subject to GAO audit to the degree that it was previously
exempt.
Government-Sponsored Enterprises. Required the GAO and the Treasury Department to conduct separate studies of
the riskiness of various “government-sponsored enterprises,” such as the Farm Credit System, the Student Loan
Marketing Association, and several secondary-mortgage market agencies. Both the GAO and Treasury were required to
report to Congress in May 1990 and May 1991 about the credit, interest-rate, management and business risks of these
enterprises, and their effect on federal borrowing.
Special Tax Provisions. Repealed effective May 10, 1989, three special tax breaks available to firms that purchased
failing banks and thrifts. The special provisions allowed such firms: to exclude from income federal financial assistance
received as part of the purchase contract; to engage in tax-free reorganizations that otherwise would not be permitted;
and to make use of the net operating losses and built-in losses of a failed bank or thrift.
Insurance Fund Logotype. Required that an entirely new logotype be devised for display by thrifts to indicate that their
deposits were “backed by the full faith and credit of the United States Government” up to $100,000. The logotype was
not to contain the inscription “FDIC.” Banks were allowed to continue using their current FDIC logotype or to switch to
the new seal.
Thrift Purchases. Authorized bank holding companies to buy healthy thrift institutions immediately upon enactment.
And, with permission of the Fed, a bank holding company might purchase a thrift and merge its assets and liabilities into
a larger bank subsidiary.
Thrift holding companies were allowed to acquire up to 5 percent of the voting stock of unaffiliated savings
institutions.
Deposit-Insurance Studies. Required the Treasury Department in concert with bank and thrift regulatory agencies to
conduct a broad review of the system of deposit insurance and report back to Congress 18 months after enactment.
The study would review such issues as: assessing premiums on and providing insurance for foreign deposits held by
U.S. banks; prohibiting bank and thrift certificates of deposit sold through securities brokers; limiting bank and thrift
bailouts strictly to the amounts of insured deposits (thereby eliminating the idea of “failsafe” banks where all deposits
and all creditors were protected); and calculating the worth of asset portfolios on the basis of market rather than book
value.
The GAO was to conduct a similar study, also due in 18 months.
In addition, the FDIC was to report in six months on the subject of so-called pass-through deposit insurance for
large certificates of deposit sold to pension funds, where the certificate was fully insured even though it might
exceed the $100,000 limit on insured deposits, because each pensioner was deemed to be insured for the full
amount.
Credit Unions. Gave the Credit Union National Association (which regulated and insured credit unions) similar authority
to that of bank and thrift regulators to move against institutions whose activities were deemed a risk to the deposit-
insurance fund.
The bill also required the Treasury Department, as part of its overall deposit-insurance study, and the GAO to review the
financial condition of credit unions and their deposit-insurance fund, and to make recommendations 18 months after
enactment as to the need for a change in the regulation of credit unions or their insurance-premium assessments.
Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. Placed the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac) under a new, 18-
member board similar to the board that governed its sister secondary-mortgage market institution, the Federal National
Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae). Freddie Mac, like Fannie Mae, participated in the secondary market in home
mortgages; it had been controlled by the Federal Home Loan Bank Board. Both Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae would be
subject to oversight by the secretaries of the Treasury and of housing and urban development to ensure their equal
footing and continued competition.
The GAO was charged with auditing Fannie Mae (it already audited Freddie Mac) and with reporting to Congress by
May 1, 1990, on the desirability of requiring such enterprises to maintain capital based on the riskiness of their
investments.
Senate Committee Action
The Senate Banking Committee, in a 21-0 vote, handed Bush a big victory April 12 when it approved a 550-page
version of bill (S 774 — S Rept 101 -19) that closely tracked his proposal.
By contrast with the House, where markup in the Banking subcommittee and full committee lasted four long days
each and covered hundreds of amendments, the Senate committee worked from a draft, a revision of Bush's original
plan, produced by Chairman Donald W. Riegle Jr., D-Mich., and the committee staff after three days of intense
discussions behind closed doors. Those talks, which involved all 21 senators on the panel, succeeded in reconciling
most controversies in private and producing a bill that all members of the panel could support.
7/3/09 11:55 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 9 of 22http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal89-1138219&type=hitlist&num=11
Throughout 11 hours of public committee debate, it was clear that the only really important vote would come last, on
the question of how to raise the $50 billion needed to close down and sell off insolvent thrifts.
Riegle strongly opposed the administration's on-budget scheme. He argued that the off-budget financing would cost
the government more in interest over the 30-year life of the bonds — perhaps $4.5 billion more than comparable
Treasury Department issues — because the bonds would not have federal backing.
Riegle proposed an equally complex financing scheme that would have kept most of the Bush plan's structure intact
but had Treasury sell the bonds and funnel the money to RefCorp.
To avoid triggering automatic Gramm-Rudman budget cuts in fiscal 1990 and 1991, when most of the bonds would
be sold, Riegle's plan incorporated a paper transaction between Treasury and RefCorp to put the entire cost of the
borrowing on budget in fiscal 1989, when it would have no effect for Gramm-Rudman purposes.
The administration argued fiercely that Riegle's approach would set an unacceptable precedent for avoiding Gramm-
Rudman strictures.
In the end, the Riegle plan was knocked out of the bill on an 11-10 vote, even though one Republican, Larry
Pressler of South Dakota, broke ranks and supported Riegle.
In addition to the financing plan, Riegle's revised bill departed from the Bush plan in several other respects.
It sought much tighter controls on the activities of state-chartered thrifts. The decision by some states to allow thrifts
to invest heavily in direct real-estate developments, commercial loans, junk bonds and other risky ventures had been
blamed by some critics of the industry for the current financial crisis.
It also altered the Bush plan's capital requirements for thrifts, making them somewhat more stringent. And it made a
significant structural change in federal regulation of thrifts, separating the chartering functions of the Federal Home
Loan Bank Board from the board's oversight of the lending activities of the 12 regional Federal Home Loan Banks.
None of those provisions was undone during the markup.
Amendments
In addition to the vote on the financing plan, the committee:
By voice vote, agreed to a Phil Gramm, R-Texas, amendment to cap at $24 billion the Treasury's contribution to the
new Savings Associations Insurance Fund (SAIF), created to insure thrift deposits.
By a 10-11 vote, defeated an amendment by John Kerry, D-Mass., that would have required the RTC to offer local and
state public-housing agencies a right of first refusal on residential real estate.
By a 6-12 vote, rejected an amendment by Bob Graham, D-Fla., to authorize the FDIC to institute a system of risk-
based premiums for deposit insurance in 1995.
By an 11-10 vote, adopted an amendment by Nancy Landon Kassebaum, R-Kan., to strike from the bill's enforcement
title a provision allowing the payment of bounty fees to persons who reported crimes against financial institutions.
By a 9-11 vote, defeated an amendment by Alan Cranston, D-Calif., that would have allowed bank holding companies
to tie together the core services they offer — deposits, loans, discounts and trusts.
Senate Floor Action
The full Senate gave overwhelming approval to the bill April 19, adopting it by a vote of 91-8. During three days of
debate, the Senate made few changes in the measure; Bush and advocates of tighter controls on thrifts won
virtually every major fight. Most of the significant changes — including a decision to increase the amount of capital
that thrifts would be required to keep on their books — largely strengthened the bill. (Vote 51, p. 12-S)
Riegle and his ally Graham failed on the floor, as they had in committee, to put the financing on budget. The Senate
voted 48-50 not to grant a waiver of the 1974 budget act for the amendment; 60 votes were needed for approval.
The waiver was needed because the amendment would have increased outlays and the deficit by $50 billion in
fiscal 1989, breaching targets in the current year budget resolution. (Vote 47, p. 12-S)
A crucial ballot on April 18, the second day of debate, proved that sponsors had the votes to turn back any
amendment that threatened to unravel the delicate compromises contained in the bill's 564 pages. As a result, many
of the other amendments that had been anticipated were never offered.
Bob Kerrey, D-Neb., proposed that the RTC be placed under a board of seven private citizens, nominated by the
president and confirmed by the Senate. (As passed, the bill put the RTC under a five-member panel including the
secretary of the Treasury, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board and the attorney general.)
Under strong opposition from Riegle and Jake Garn of Utah, ranking Republican on the committee, Kerrey's
amendment was killed on a tabling motion, 66-32. (Vote 46, p. 12-S)
7/3/09 11:55 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 10 of 22http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal89-1138219&type=hitlist&num=11
Capital Standards
The most significant floor amendments that were agreed to were forced by Howard M. Metzenbaum, D-Ohio, who
seemingly stood alone against fierce pressure to conclude work on the bill in time for the Senate to begin an 11-day
recess at 4 p.m. April 19.
Metzenbaum wanted more than a half-dozen changes, mostly involving capital requirements and consumer
protections. He threatened to keep the Senate in session through April 21 if necessary to debate the amendments.
In the end, Riegle and Garn incorporated two of Metz-enbaum's ideas in a 76-page “managers’ amendment” offered
at the close of debate April 19. With almost no discussion about what it contained, the Senate adopted the
amendment by voice vote.
One of the Metzenbaum additions required the RTC to review contracts signed by the FSLIC in 1988 for the sale of
more than 200 failed thrifts, in an effort to find ways to make the terms more favorable to the government.
The second change, on capital requirements, was heralded by consumer groups, Treasury lobbyists and Garn as a
major improvement to the bill. It required that all thrifts maintain no less than a 3 percent ratio of capital assets by
1991; at least 1.5 percent would have to be tangible capital — cash, securities, or other liquid assets. Thrifts
carrying good will, “intangible” capital generally not available to banks, would have to write it off within 25 years.
The bill, as it had come to the floor, would not have established a minimum tangible or core capital requirement;
instead it followed the administration language tying thrift standards to those for banks, and allowing good will to
count toward all capital requirements.
The Consumer Federation of America and Consumers’ Union worked hard to eliminate that “huge loophole,” which
they said would allow some thrifts to continue operating without restraint, even when they had none of their own
money at risk.
“I think good will is not worth doodly-doo,” Metzenbaum said, “and I wanted to eliminate it.”
“It's not very often the senator from Ohio and I agree,” Garn replied, “but I was very happy to agree to these
particular proposals.”
The Metzenbaum amendment was “a step in the right direction,” said Michele Meier of Consumers’ Union. But she
and Treasury lobbyists said they would press in the full House Banking Committee, which had not yet taken up the
bill, to adopt an even tougher minimum tangible capital requirement of 3 percent of assets.
Under pressure from the Judiciary Committee, the managers’ amendment also relaxed some of the new maximum
criminal penalties for financial institution offenses. Maximum prison terms were set at 15 years, not 20 as under the
bill as sent to the floor. And a maximum civil fine of $2,500 a day — not $25,000 — was set for offenses that did
not threaten the safety and soundness of a financial institution or pose a risk of loss to the deposit-insurance funds.
The latter amendment had been sought by smaller banks and thrifts that feared they could be put out of business
simply for failing to submit a routine quarterly report to banking regulators on time.
The Riegle-Garn amendment also authorized the FDIC to continue to collect full premiums from banks and thrifts
until their respective insurance funds were worth 1.65 percent of total insured deposits. Rebates of premiums would,
therefore, not be required until the insurance funds were much larger than the 1.25 percent minimum ratio required
by the bill. But premiums collected after the funds reached 1.25 percent of assets would have to be segregated into
special, interest-bearing accounts.
The Bush administration had proposed allowing the FDIC to continue collecting full premiums until the insurance
funds reached a 1.5 percent ratio.
The Riegle-Garn amendment also required that an entirely new logotype be devised for display by thrifts to indicate
that their deposits were “backed by the full faith and credit of the United States Government” up to $100,000. The
logotype would not contain the inscription “FDIC.” Banks would be allowed to continue using their current FDIC
logotype, or switch to the new seal.
Other Major Amendments
During floor debate on S 774, the Senate:
On a voice vote, agreed to an amendment sponsored by Frank H. Murkowski, R-Alaska, specifying that financial
institutions that did not meet minimum capital requirements would be allowed to accept so-called brokered deposits only
with the permission of the FDIC. Such deposits, typically in fully insured $100,000 blocks, were put together by Wall
Street securities dealers and farmed out to institutions paying the highest rates.
By a 62-37 vote, rejected an amendment sponsored by Don Nickles, R-Okla., that would have given the FDIC authority
to insure overseas deposits held by U.S. banks and assess premiums on those deposits. (Vote 49, p. 12-S)
By voice vote, adopted an amendment by Tim Wirth, D-Colo., requiring the RTC to maintain a list of real estate acquired
from thrifts that had special natural, cultural, recreational or scientific significance. The list was to be used to help ensure
7/3/09 11:55 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 11 of 22http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal89-1138219&type=hitlist&num=11
from thrifts that had special natural, cultural, recreational or scientific significance. The list was to be used to help ensure
that appropriate purchasers of such real estate were notified of its availability.
By voice vote, adopted an amendment by Connie Mack, R-Fla., requiring national standards for the selection of auditors
by thrift institutions and for the conduct of such audits. By voice vote, the Senate adopted a similar amendment
sponsored by Jim Exon, D-Neb., to increase audit requirements for credit unions.
By a 61-38 vote, the Senate tabled a Graham amendment that would have required that bank board Chairman Wall be
appointed by the president to be chairman of the proposed new Office of Savings Associations in Treasury, and be
confirmed by the Senate. As the bill stood, he could assume the new job without confirmation. (Vote 50, p. 12-S)
Some members were quite unhappy with Wall's performance as bank board chairman and his repeated assertions
that the thrift crisis would not require a taxpayer bailout.
House Banking Committee Action
The House Banking Subcommittee on Financial Institutions, the first to take a pen to the bill, completed its work
April 13 after spending more than 32 hours over four days and disposing of about 200 amendments.
By far the most important battle in the House subcommittee was over capital standards. Although the issue was
complicated, changes approved by the subcommittee, largely at the urging of Chairman Frank Annunzio, D-Ill., were
widely seen as weakening Bush's proposal, even though in some respects the changes went beyond the president's
proposal, at least in the level of detail.
Thrifts would no longer have been required to meet the same core capital standards as banks. Instead, the
subcommittee required that thrifts maintain capital equal to 3 percent of their assets by June 1990, half of it tangible
capital.
One of the most significant departures was that the subcommittee allowed good will and some other non-cash
assets to count toward the latter 1.5 percent for up to 40 years. The Bush proposal had allowed good will to count
for 10 years, but it could have counted toward all capital requirements; there was no minimum tangible requirement
in the Bush proposal.
The Annunzio proposal also specified that thrifts would have to meet a capital standard based on the riskiness of
their loans and other assets that was no less stringent than that expected to be in place in national banks by 1993.
Although the Bush bill was widely believed to incorporate by reference a requirement that thrifts meet the risk-based
capital standard for banks, supporters of the Annunzio amendment argued that it was an improvement because it
spelled out the risk-based capital requirement.
Annunzio's amendment incorporated requests from as many as 30 members of the panel for changes in the capital
requirement, reflecting the degree of lobbying on this issue. It passed by a vote of 24-23.
In addition to votes on capital standards, the subcommittee:
Approved, 26-18, an Annunzio amendment to revise the “qualified thrift lender” (QTL) test, which was used to qualify
thrifts for special tax treatment and the right to borrow at low rates from the Federal Home Loan Bank system. Existing
law required thrifts to have 60 percent of their assets in residential loans and some non-residential assets, such as real
estate and other property used by thrifts in the course of their business. Company jets qualified, for instance.
The Annunzio amendment increased the test to 80 percent, but broadened the types of loans that would qualify —
including, for example, consumer loans and credit-card balances.
Approved, 34-12, an amendment by Banking Committee Chairman Henry B. Gonzalez, D-Texas, to give state and local
public-housing agencies a 90-day right of first refusal to buy residential property held by the RTC, created by the bill to
close down insolvent thrifts and dispose of their assets.
Approved, by voice vote, an amendment by Stan Parris, R-Va., allowing bank holding companies to purchase healthy
thrifts upon enactment.
Approved, by voice vote, three amendments by John J. LaFalce, D-N.Y., authorizing thrift holding companies to
purchase up to 5 percent of the stock of, or make other investments in, unaffiliated thrifts.
Approved, by voice vote, an amendment by Thomas R. Carper, D-Del., preventing bank board Chairman Wall from
continuing in office after enactment unless he was reappointed and confirmed by the Senate. Under the bill his agency
was to be restructured and placed under the Treasury Department.
Approved, by voice vote, a Carper amendment allowing banks and credit unions to borrow from the 12 regional Federal
Home Loan Banks, which made loans to thrifts at below-market rates to facilitate mortgage lending.
Full Committee Action
The full Banking Committee voted overwhelmingly May 2 to approve HR 1278, after making a number of significant
7/3/09 11:55 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 12 of 22http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal89-1138219&type=hitlist&num=11
The full Banking Committee voted overwhelmingly May 2 to approve HR 1278, after making a number of significant
changes that supporters and opponents alike said resulted in a tougher bill.
The House committee approved the bill by a 49-2 vote minutes before midnight. Only Jim Leach, R-Iowa, and Joseph
P. Kennedy II, D-Mass., voted against it. Leach, one of those pushing the panel to stiffen investment and capital rules
for thrifts, was an exception to the consensus that the bill accomplished its aims. He complained that it was “not
tough enough.”
Kennedy said he voted “no” because he had lost on two issues — a short-term, tax-supported financing scheme
and new, stiffer anti-discrimination provisions for mortgage lenders.
In one of the most significant changes from the subcommittee version, the bill approved by the full committee
doubled the requirement for tangible capital.
“Everyone kept expecting the capital standards to crack sometime, but they kept getting stronger and stronger,” said
an effusive David W. Mullins Jr., assistant Treasury secretary and administration point man during the 66 hours of
subcommittee and full committee markup.
But capital requirements were not the only place where the bill grew tougher. It also put new limits on the kinds of
activities in which state-chartered thrifts could invest. State powers to buy and hold real estate, stocks and other
risky investments had been identified as a principal cause of the thrift crisis.
Banks, too, were affected, when the committee voted to require annual, independent audits of even the smallest
bank. Audits had not been required by federal law before.
“We're in an atmosphere where, if somebody says it's a safety and soundness consideration, or it's an early
warning, it's going to pass,” said Stephen J. Verdier, a lobbyist with the Independent Bankers Association of
America.
In addition, in light of the thrift industry's historic purpose to finance housing, the committee voted to earmark both
money and surplus property to boost the available supply of low- and moderate-income dwellings. Fights over the
housing provisions precipitated the only partisan splits on the bill.
The administration viewed the committee measure largely as a victory, although it strongly opposed the housing
provisions and was unhappy with some of the structural changes made in Bush's plan. In particular, it objected to
restraints placed on the RTC, the off-budget agency being created to take over insolvent thrifts and close them
down or sell them off.
Capital Standards
Going further than either the White House or Senate versions, the House committee agreed to require a thrift to
have tangible, or real money, capital equal to 1.5 percent of its assets by June 1, 1990, a year earlier than the
subcommittee version of the bill. The committee also agreed to require thrifts to have core capital, including good
will, of 3 percent by the same date. About 700 thrifts that counted supervisory good will on their books would have
had to write it off as part of core capital by Dec. 31, 1994.
The full committee retained the risk-based capital requirement adopted in subcommittee, and agreed to allow good
will to count toward that requirement for 20 years.
Gonzalez had promised a full committee vote on capital standards following the subcommittee action, which he had
strongly criticized. The Bush administration lobbied in favor of the tougher standards, leveling a barrage of letters at
members from banking regulators. Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady called a number of committee members
during the daylong debate, urging support of an amendment by Gonzalez that would have increased the
requirement for tangible capital to 2.25 percent of assets.
Gonzalez’ language was modified by an amendment crafted by Charles E. Schumer D-N.Y., and offered by Bruce F.
Vento, D-Minn., that stretched out the period thrifts would have to meet the tougher standards. The Vento
amendment increased the capital requirement to 3 percent of assets and prohibited the counting of good will or
other intangibles after Dec. 31, 1994. Both the Vento amendment and the underlying Gonzalez proposal were
adopted on lopsided 36-15 votes.
There were several last-minute efforts to weaken the capital standards. In particular, Floyd H. Flake, D-N.Y., offered
an amendment May 1 that had previously been debated and withdrawn. It would have allowed thrifts carrying
supervisory good will on their books to count it toward the bill's 3 percent tangible capital requirement for up to 40
years, depending on the supervisory agreements creating the good will.
“We're going to try this again one more time,” said ally Tom Ridge, R-Pa. But the debate clearly indicated that the
amendment would fail, and it was again withdrawn.
Proponents argued that it was only fair to give credit for good will to thrifts that had accepted it on good faith. But
Gonzalez and other opponents countered that thrifts “not only got good will, they got a good deal.”
Ridge came back later the same day with an amendment to allow thrift regulators to grant case-by-case exemptions
from the bill's general rule prohibiting the counting of good will as tangible capital, arguing that the comptroller of the
currency had proposed a similar standard for national banks. His amendment was defeated on a 23-28 vote.
7/3/09 11:55 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 13 of 22http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal89-1138219&type=hitlist&num=11
The only real defeat on an effort to increase capital standards in committee came May 2. The committee defeated,
23-26, an amendment by Schumer to give regulators authority to terminate waivers of capital standards and other
so-called forbearances included in deals made in 1988 to sell failed thrifts.
Financing, Housing
Amendments offered by both Kennedy and LaFalce to adopt an on-budget, tax-financed plan to raise $50 billion
were rejected by Gonzalez as non-germane to the bill and outside the committee's jurisdiction. Authority to write tax
measures rested with the Ways and Means Committee.
Administration officials had signaled their intention to recommend that Bush veto the bill if the financing scheme
were changed. And Office of Management and Budget Director Richard G. Darman wrote Congress that a change
would “seriously jeopardize” budget negotiations.
On housing issues, Gonzalez and Barney Frank, D-Mass., cooperated to score a pair of victories for themselves and
committee Democrats — and the biggest losses for the administration and the Republicans.
Frank had openly portrayed housing as a partisan issue on the panel and needled his GOP colleagues that their
reluctance to support him proved their lack of concern for poor people.
The first housing test came April 27, when Gonzalez proposed setting aside a portion of the earnings of the 12
regional Federal Home Loan Banks to subsidize mortgages for low- and moderate-income housing. Every
Republican and four senior Democrats voted against the amendment, but it was adopted 27-24.
Then on May 2, Frank offered an amendment to require that the RTC, which would manage and sell off the assets
of failed thrifts, give local and state housing agencies a “right of first refusal” for 90 days on certain low-priced
residential properties. The amendment had been watered down in subcommittee, but it was restored in full
committee, where it passed 33-18. Every Democrat and two Republicans supported it.
Other Major Amendments
In addition to the multiple votes on capital standards and the financing and housing debates, the full committee also
considered the following amendments during the four days of markup:
By voice vote, the committee agreed April 27 to a Frank amendment to, in effect, allow thrifts that contracted to collect
mortgages that they did not own to count the anticipated fee income from those contracts as tangible capital. The FDIC
at the time allowed banks to count these so-called mortgage-servicing rights as real capital. Under the Frank
amendment, if the FDIC should change that rule for banks, it would automatically be changed for thrifts as well.
By 28-23, the committee May 1 adopted a Leach amendment limiting direct investments in real estate or other ventures
by state-chartered thrifts. It did not apply to so-called service corporations as long as the FDIC determined that the
thrift's activities did not threaten the deposit-insurance funds and that the thrift had met the bill's capital standards.
The amendment generally limited all thrifts to the direct-investment activities available to federally chartered thrifts,
both in type and amount. That excluded real estate and stocks, but not below-investment-grade, or junk, bonds.
And it required thrifts to sell non-complying investments no later than June 1, 1994.
By a voice vote, the committee May 1 adopted an amendment by Doug Barnard Jr., D-Ga., granting a limited exception
to the general rule restricting transactions between thrifts and their affiliates to 10 percent of the thrift's assets.
Barnard's amendment — which committee members said was intended to meet the special needs of Sears,
Roebuck & Co. and its subsidiary, Sears Savings Bank — allowed a thrift to breach the 10 percent rule when
buying and selling high-quality, single-family mortgages or mortgage-backed securities to and from the thrift's
mortgage-banking affiliate.
By voice vote, the committee May 1 agreed to an amendment by Stephen L. Neal, D-N.C., to limit the use of so-called
brokered deposits by undercapitalized thrifts. Brokered deposits typically were large-denomination certificates of deposit
(often approaching $100,000, the limit on insured accounts) and were packaged by securities brokers who shopped
across the country for the highest rates.
Critics contended that weak thrifts had bid up interest rates by offering premium yields and then soliciting large
amounts of brokered deposits, thereby weakening the industry as a whole.
By voice vote, the committee May 2 agreed to a Gonzalez amendment to alter the makeup of the RTC's oversight
board. The administration proposed that the secretary of the Treasury chair a three-person board to set policy for the
RTC. The attorney general and chairman of the Federal Reserve Board would serve on the oversight board.
Gonzalez’ amendment, which was negotiated with several committee members, added the secretary of housing and
urban development and a private citizen experienced in real estate to the board as voting members, and added the
chairman of the FDIC as a non-voting member.
By voice vote, the committee May 2 adopted an amendment by Marcy Kaptur, D-Ohio, and Cliff Stearns, R-Fla.,
requiring RefCorp to sell small-denomination bonds as part of its effort to raise $50 billion to close down failed thrifts.
7/3/09 11:55 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 14 of 22http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal89-1138219&type=hitlist&num=11
requiring RefCorp to sell small-denomination bonds as part of its effort to raise $50 billion to close down failed thrifts.
The amendment's intent was to encourage small investors to participate in the financing scheme, but it put no
specific dollar requirement on the small-issue offerings. The bonds were to be sold directly to the public through
Federal Reserve outlets, just as Treasury bonds were currently sold.
By voice vote, the committee May 2 defeated two Kaptur amendments that would have limited the sale of RefCorp
bonds to foreign investors to 10 percent of the total offering — or $5 billion — and required the Treasury Department to
estimate the amount of RefCorp bonds purchased by foreigners.
By voice vote, the committee May 2 defeated an amendment sponsored by Ridge and Paul E. Kanjorski, D-Pa., that
would have allowed thrifts that acquired failing thrifts without cash assistance, and with a substantial amount of good
will, to exchange up to $200 million in so-called net operating losses for FDIC promissory notes or mortgage loans.
By a 27-22 vote, the committee May 2 adopted a Schumer amendment to strike a subcommittee-added provision giving
bank holding companies increased authority to require their customers to purchase services, such as insurance, from
one affiliate while taking advantage of services, such as mortgage lending, offered by a second.
Such “anti-tying” rules were more lenient for thrift holding companies than for bank holding companies under
existing law, and the subcommittee-approved amendment would have equalized them. Insurance agents, who had
long fought all efforts by banks to get into the insurance business, wanted existing law preserved.
By 3-48, the committee May 2 defeated a Leach amendment that would have required the secretary of housing and
urban development to issue risk-based capital standards for the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie
Mac) and the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae), two federally chartered, privately owned
corporations established to stimulate secondary market sales of mortgages and mortgage-backed securities.
A subsequent amendment by Gerald D. Kleczka, D-Wis., to require GAO audits of Freddie Mac was adopted by voice
vote.
And a Kleczka amendment to alter the Freddie Mac board of directors to increase the percentage of public
members was defeated by voice vote.
By voice vote, the committee May 2 adopted a Barnard amendment to allow the bill's maximum civil penalty of $15,000
per day for banking-law violations (other than the $1 million per day fine in the bill for reckless violations) to be applied
for past misconduct under certain circumstances. Only violations that had occurred since the most recent bank or thrift
examination would be subject to the higher penalty. Existing law provided a $1,000 per day fine for civil violations.
By votes of 23-27 and 21-30, the committee May 2 defeated two amendments sponsored by Kennedy and Gonzalez
that would have required public disclosure of bank, thrift and credit union ratings and evaluations under the Community
Reinvestment Act, and required increased data collection by race, sex and income level under the Home Mortgage
Disclosure Act.
Both laws were designed to help bank regulators battle “redlining,” the practice of denying mortgage and other credit in
neighborhoods dominated by racial and ethnic minorities.
By a 33–16 vote, the committee May 2 adopted an amendment by Toby Roth, R-Wis., to require banks to have annual,
independent audits of their books. Those with less than $150 million in assets — about 12,000 of the nation's 14,000
banks — were to be subject to more lenient standards than larger banks, most of which currently underwent audits. All
thrifts were subject to annual, independent audits, but many smaller banks were not.
By a 38–9 vote, the committee May 2 adopted an amendment by Chalmers P. Wylie, R-Ohio, to create a federal Credit
Standards Advisory Committee to provide recommendations to financial institution regulators on the credit standards
used by banks, thrifts and credit unions and the ways that regulators reviewed financial institution performance.
By voice vote, the committee May 2 adopted a Carper amendment to establish minimum standards for accrediting state
financial institution supervisors, and authorize the FDIC to pay a sizable part of the cost of training state supervisors.
By voice vote, the committee May 2 defeated an amendment offered by John Hiler, R-Ind., on behalf of Parris to allow
banks that were affiliated across state lines to collect deposits for each other.
Other House Committees
Although the Banking Committee had finished, three other committees still had to mark up pieces of the bill that fell
under their jurisdiction. Ways and Means got started even before the bill had been formally reported, holding a
“conceptual” markup May 10, which was ratified a week later. Next came the Judiciary Committee, which on May 24
came within one vote of blowing a wide hole in the capital standards crafted by Banking. Finally, Government
Operations met June 1. The Rules Committee also had legislative jurisidiction over the Gramm-Rudman waiver and
certain other issues; the committee filed a report June 1 without making any recommendations.
Ways and Means
7/3/09 11:55 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 15 of 22http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal89-1138219&type=hitlist&num=11
House Ways and Means May 10 handed Bush his first real defeat on the thrift bill, voting 25–11 in favor of an
amendment to count the $50 billion to be borrowed over the following three years as part of the federal budget. To
avoid triggering automatic spending cuts, it explicitly exempted the $50 billion from Gramm-Rudman calculations.
Only two Republicans — Bill Gradison of Ohio and Raymond J. McGrath of New York — voted for the measure.
Ways and Means Chairman Dan Rostenkowski, D-Ill., praised his colleagues for their willingness “to bite the bullet”
and face up to strong administration pressure, which had defeated a similar idea in the Senate and prevented the
House Banking Committee from taking up the question.
Immediately after the committee vote, Treasury Secretary Brady renewed a threat to recommend a veto if the final
bill contained an on-budget financing plan. The resulting delay in enactment would cost more in added losses at
failing thrifts than the on-budget plan would save in interest expenses, Brady said.
The committee also agreed by voice vote to repeal, effective May 10, the three special tax rules enacted in 1981 to
entice potential purchasers for failing thrifts. In 1988, as part of a measure (PL 100-647) making technical
corrections in the 1986 tax-overhaul bill, Congress had voted to extend those rules for a year, with some limitations,
and to allow the same benefits to purchasers of failing banks. (1988 Almanac p. 199)
The special rules provided that:
Federal assistance given the purchaser of a failed institution would not count as income, and therefore would be tax-
exempt.
Such purchase transactions in some cases would be exempt from provisions that ordinarily taxed a change in corporate
ownership.
So-called net operating losses of a failed thrift or bank could be carried forward to a new institution under certain
circumstances, despite provisions that usually prohibited such accounting.
Ways and Means’ decisions were tentative, because the committee met before the bill had actually been reported by
Banking and referred to the tax-writing committee. Ways and Means formally ratified its decisions on May 18.
While there was no further debate on the decision to put the financing on budget, Sam M. Gibbons, D-Fla., tried
several tacks to avoid borrowing the $50 billion by temporarily raising taxes instead. His efforts were soundly
rejected by a strong bipartisan majority on the committee, led by Rostenkowski.
The committee did adopt by voice vote an amendment by Frank J. Guarini, D-N.J., to increase the amount that the
thrift industry would pay toward the bailout. Under the bill, the 12 regional Federal Home Loan Banks would be
required to pay $300 million a year toward the interest costs on the $50 billion borrowed to close failed thrifts.
Guarini's amendment was to index that payment to the Consumer Price Index, beginning in 1993.
The only drama during the three-hour debate came at the end when Republicans on the committee asked for a roll-
call vote, then proceeded (except for Gradison and McGrath) to vote against the measure.
“I've never seen such a double-cross in my life,” roared Gibbons, who said later he objected that on this unpopular
bill, requested by a Republican president, the Democrats were almost alone in supporting it.
One by one, Democrats changed their votes to “no,” until the measure was clearly going to be defeated, and then
the Republicans began to switch. In the end, the bill was reported by a 26–10 vote, with eight Democrats, most of
whom favored Gibbons’ tax amendments, and only two Republicans, Guy Vander Jagt of Michigan and Hank Brown
of Colorado, voting against it. Fifteen Democrats and 11 Republicans voted “yes.”
Judiciary
When the bill got to the Judiciary Committee, Henry J. Hyde, R-Ill., led an effort to weaken the capital standards by
giving a break to thrifts that had no tangible capital but did have government-granted good will. Hyde's amendment
would have given these thrifts the opportunity to claim injury due to the required loss of this good-will capital and
would have provided a lengthy appeals process through the FDIC.
The amendment was defeated on a 17–17 tie vote; six Democrats and 11 Republicans voted for it. Chairman Jack
Brooks, D-Texas, did not vote. The Republicans voting against Hyde were F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. of
Wisconsin, D. French Slaughter Jr. of Virginia and Lamar Smith of Texas.
Administration officials said the amendment amounted to an automatic grant of delay that could last for a year and a
half for all thrifts that counted supervisory good will. They attributed the voting pattern, and their inabilty to hold GOP
votes despite the president's support for strong capital standards, to a concentration on the committee of members
from California, Florida, Illinois, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Texas, states that had the highest number of thrifts with
good will on their books.
Schumer, who had been a leading proponent of strict standards — and the architect of Democratic majorities to
support them — warned that the continuing GOP defections could be trouble when the bill reached the floor.
In other action, the committee voted to reduce the bill's maximum individual fine for a serious civil violation of
7/3/09 11:55 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 16 of 22http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal89-1138219&type=hitlist&num=11
In other action, the committee voted to reduce the bill's maximum individual fine for a serious civil violation of
banking law from $1 million to $500,000. But at the same time, it voted to reduce the standards of proof for a civil
violation.
It also voted to remove a $5 million cap on the total civil fine that could be levied on a banking corporation that
engaged in ongoing civil violation of banking law. And it voted down an effort to reduce the maximum jail term that
could be imposed for a criminal violation of banking law.
Government Operations
The Government Operations Committee became yet another battleground for the clash over financing the bailout.
Members voted 13–22, almost exactly along party lines, June 1 to retain the Ways and Means recommendation that
the financing be put on budget.
House Floor Action
By overwhelming margins that amazed nearly everyone involved, the House June 15 passed the thrift bill on a 320–
97 vote after a long day of balloting on 11 amendments. One key amendment by Hyde, which would have relaxed
the bill's new capital requirements for certain thrifts, was defeated on a 94–326 vote. Both votes were expected to
be much closer. (Vote 95, p. 36-H; vote 87, p. 34-H)
The House action was a victory for Bush and for those in Congress who had championed tougher capital standards
for thrifts. It was a big defeat for elements of the thrift industry and their allies who had fought to preserve the ability
to count good will as capital.
The House also voted to put financing of the salvage operation on the federal budget, to ban junk bond investments
by thrifts, to impose new anti-discrimination disclosure requirements on mortgage lenders, to retain a new low-
income housing program and to strike special-interest provisions from the bill.
In every instance the outcome, or at least the margin of victory, was a surprise. That led many members to
comment that the symbolic value of their votes to crack down on highflying thrift operators was more important in
the end than the substance of the issues on which they were voting.
“There's a populist wind blowing on the House floor tonight,” exclaimed Schumer, who was widely credited with
shepherding the bill through difficult committee markups and on the House floor.
House passage marked the second major step forward for the bill, which had passed the Senate April 19.
Democratic leaders clearly were buoyed by their floor successes, having won every vote that they targeted.
Gonzalez was especially pleased at having maneuvered the measure through his 51-member committee and the
floor debate, with his pet provisions intact, earning the respect of his colleagues on both sides of the aisle.
Many Republicans agreed that the measure was worthy of support. Even Leach, who had voted against the bill in
the Banking Committee because he thought it was not tough enough in regulating the surviving portion of the thrift
industry, voted yes. “On balance, it's a step forward,” he said.
The overwhelming defeat of Hyde's capital standards amendment was easily the most surprising vote. But the 303–
114 vote on an amendment by Byron L. Dorgan, D-N.D., to ban thrift investments in junk bonds was a close second.
(Vote 92, p. 34-H)
Observers on all sides saw the two votes as evidence that Congress was becoming more reluctant to do anything
that looked like a favor for the thrift industry.
Many members credited media attention on the bill, and the fact that Bush weighed in heavily the afternoon before
the Hyde vote, summoning congressional leaders to the White House and threatening a veto if the capital standards
were weakened.
It was the first tough statement from Bush on the bill. House Minority Leader Robert H. Michel, R-Ill., followed up with
a strong letter from the president, read on the floor the morning of June 15. When Michel, thought to be a Hyde
supporter, announced that he reluctantly would vote against the amendment, its fate appeared sealed.
It was also clear that longstanding opposition to weaker capital standards from a majority of Democrats had put
Republicans in a box. “We look like … we're the bad guys,” Michel lamented.
The fight over capital standards appeared partisan at times, especially since the Rules Committee structured the
floor debate in a way that had Republicans offering amendments to weaken the standards, while Democrats
proposed strengthening them. But in the end, the vote was not at all partisan, especially compared with votes on
other issues like financing and housing.
The 280–146 vote to put the financing plan on budget drew only 29 Republicans to the prevailing side. The same
day, Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, circulated a letter signed by 41 GOP senators who promised to vote to prevent an
onbudget financing plan from being brought to the Senate floor. Supporters needed 60 votes to overrule a
guaranteed point of order against adopting a financing scheme like that in the House bill, because of the Gramm-
Rudman exemption it contained. (Vote 90, p. 34-H)
7/3/09 11:55 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 17 of 22http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal89-1138219&type=hitlist&num=11
The housing votes were also partisan — to a degree. An amendment by Steve Bartlett, R-Texas, to knock out the
low-income mortgage subsidy provision was defeated narrowly, 206–208. Only four Republicans supported the
housing provision, crafted by Banking Chairman Gonzalez, while 43 Democrats joined Bartlett. (Vote 93, p. 34-H)
And the amendment by Kennedy to strengthen the anti-redlining laws also pitted majorities of each party against
one another, although to a lesser degree.
Conference
A 102-member House-Senate conference committee was hastily convened June 22, but work did not get under
way until lawmakers had returned from their July 4th recess.
The Senate appointed a streamlined conference contingent, consisting of the top three Democrats and top two
Republicans on the Banking Committee, and the top two Democrats and ranking Republican on the Finance
Committee. The eight Senate conferees faced off against 94 House members, including all 51 members of the
Banking Committee, 20 from Ways and Means, and others from Judiciary, Rules and Government and Commerce.
Gonzalez said he had put the whole committee on the conference to give everyone a voice. But he then divided
them into five groups to deal with discrete parts of the bill, a move that he conceded was intended to tilt the balance
on certain issues and help guarantee that his views would prevail. He noted, for example, that some members who
had opposed his position on capital standards and housing had been left off the relevant subgroups.
In a surprise move, Senate conferees July 13 proposed a comprehensive amendment to resolve more than a dozen
key differences in the bills. Gonzalez was upset by the move, which undercut his approach. But after reviewing the
Senate offer and talking with Riegle, Gonzalez agreed to proceed.
Major trade-offs in the Senate proposal offered the House victories on stiffer capital rules and on housing
components of the bill and provided the Senate and administration with a win on the question of on- or off-budget
financing by keeping the $50 billion in borrowing off the federal books.
The proposal also tried to split the difference between the House and Senate bills on the controversial issue of thrift
investments in junk bonds. A thrift could invest up to two times its net worth, but in no case more than 6 percent of
its assets in junk bonds. It followed the Senate bill in guaranteeing Wall a job as top regulator under the new
regulatory scheme created by the bill.
Work slipped behind closed doors the week of July 17, after the House had presented a counteroffer. Most of the
work was delegated to House and Senate Banking Committee staffers, although all 102 conferees were supposed
to be kept informed.
Finally, after two daylong negotiating sessions July 26 and 27, conferees reached agreement on all the outstanding
issues (See box, p. 127).
Financing
Reaching the agreement on financing was by far the most difficult and contentious issue in the conference. It was
also the only issue on which the five Senate Banking Committee conferees (who made up the entire Senate
contingent on 99 percent of the bill) presented other than a united front.
Since the beginning of the conference, nearly every observer had believed that the financing question would
ultimately be decided by one person — Cranston.
Cranston and a few other Senate Democrats had joined nearly all Senate Republicans in successfully opposing the
on-budget plan in the Banking Committee and on the floor.
Among the Senate conferees on the issue, he and the two Republicans — Garn and John Heinz of Pennsylvania —
supported the off-budget plan. The two other Democrats — Riegle and Paul S. Sarbanes of Maryland — supported
the on-budget plan. House conferees were strongly in favor of the on-budget proposal, backed up by a 280–146
floor vote.
Cranston persisted in his opposition throughout six hours of conference debate on the issue July 27, until the end
when he changed his vote. Throughout that period, Cranston tried to find a compromise plan that would put half the
cost on the budget and half off. But although he finally crafted such a hybrid that could win the two Republicans on
his side of the table, House members loudly rejected it in a voice vote. Finally Cranston gave in, breaking the
impasse.
“We can't have a deadlock forever, so someone will have to yield,” Cranston said before he switched his position.
Two concessions by House conferees the day before the financing vote seemed to help bring Cranston around.
On one, said by Gonzalez to be the most important, the House agreed to allow Wall to become director of the new
Office of Thrift Supervision without being subjected to Senate confirmation. The new office was created by the bill to
charter and supervise thrifts. The second House capitulation allowed the new agency to supervise state-chartered
thrifts.
7/3/09 11:55 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 18 of 22http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal89-1138219&type=hitlist&num=11
Wall, a longtime friend and associate of Garn, was staff director of the Senate Banking Committee during the six
years Garn was chairman, 1981–86.
Cranston was reported to have interceded with Wall on behalf of Lincoln Savings and Loan Association, a
theninsolvent California thrift.
Lincoln's chairman, Charles H. Keating Jr., had close ties to Cranston and at Cranston's request helped secure
large campaign contributions. Cranston's ties to Keating would almost certainly have been an issue in a confirmation
battle. (Lincoln Savings, p. 133)
Gonzalez said the House decision to drop its opposition to Wall was not a deal. But, he said, he did believe the
switch was necessary to get Cranston to change his position. “That's my understanding from the leadership, from
the senators, and from Sen. Cranston,” Gonzalez said.
Rep. Richard H. Lehman, D-Calif., said after the July 26 conference decision on Wall, “If [Cranston] doesn't vote to go
on budget, we just gave away the store.”
(In the end, Gonzalez got what amounted to an inquiry into Wall's fitness for the job in the form of hearings on the
costly failure of Lincoln Savings and Loan Association of Irvine, Calif. Witnesses testified that Wall had ignored
recommendations from San Francisco regulators in 1987 that the thrift should be seized. By the time Lincoln was
shut down in 1989, the cost to the taxpayer had grown to some $2 billion. Wall repeatedly defended his actions, but
under growing pressure, he announced Dec. 4 that he would resign his post as director of the OTS.) (Box, p. 132)
Other Issues
Financing was far from the only element of tension among conferees. On issue after issue the Senate gave in to
the House position, prompting Senate conferees to object that House members didn't want to give up on anything.
“We would like to have something to show our colleagues in the Senate other than the fact that the House
negotiates with very sharp teeth,” Heinz complained at one point.
In the end, the issues of Wall and the regulation of state-chartered thrifts were about the only major Senate
positions on which the House yielded.
For example, the House prevailed by preserving, largely intact, two major housing provisions and two major
consumer provisions that were vigorously opposed by the administration.
Conferees retained a House-passed subsidy program that would set aside $50 million to $100 million a year for low-
income housing mortgages, and a House-passed provision giving non-profit housing agencies a “right of first
refusal” to acquire low-income housing units acquired by the government when it took over failed thrifts.
And the conference retained new data-collection requirements from all mortgage lenders on race, sex and income
level of mortgage applicants and a provision allowing for public disclosure of bank and thrift evaluations under the
anti-redlining Community Reinvestment Act of 1977.
The House also prevailed, at least in principle, in its effort to keep so-called special-interest provisions out of the
bill. Only a few were added in conference. One of those, offered by Rep. Peter Hoagland, D-Neb., was changed
enough to be characterized by the time it was adopted as good public policy by Leach, the most ardent opponent of
special interests.
Ironically, the issue that dominated House debate on the bill — tough new capital standards for thrifts — largely
dissipated during the conference. In fact, the issue of supervisory good will, over which House members had fought
bitterly until the end of floor debate on the bill, never came up in the conference.
Very early on, the Senate indicated that it would accept the stiffer House rule on good will. There were debates on
the capital standards question, particularly concerning the effective date. The House bill had set June 1, 1990, as
the date for thrifts to meet new minimum capital requirements; the Senate said June 1, 1991. The Senate, however,
urged on by the administration, pressed to make the new standards effective on the date of the bill's enactment.
Conferees compromised on an effective date of 120 days after enactment, with 60 more days for undercapitalized
thrifts to submit “business plans” for increasing capital. Such plans, if accepted by regulators, would give thrifts that
were otherwise profitable extra time to meet capital requirements.
Generally, under the bill, a thrift that failed to meet the capital standards could lose its deposit insurance and would
be subject to supervisory control by federal regulators.
The One Cloud
Aside from the financing arrangement, the Bush administration was generally happy with the conference agreement.
Brady called it “an excellent product.” The administration was particularly pleased with the stiff capital standards.
Members from both chambers and both sides of the aisle also were happy with the outcome. And they were
hopeful, but uncertain, that it would succeed in its aims to clean up the savings and loan mess.
7/3/09 11:55 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 19 of 22http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal89-1138219&type=hitlist&num=11
“No matter what we did, there would be a question,” said Garn, ranking Republican on the Senate Banking
Committee. “I don't think it's possible at this stage to anticipate every problem.”
But the financing scheme still threatened to derail the bill.
The House was expected to adopt the conference report quickly. But in the Senate, Gramm had vowed to block an
on-budget scheme. He planned to try to enforce a Senate rule under which the bill violated the Gramm-Rudman
anti-deficit law. Supporters of the on-budget plan would then need 60 votes to prevail.
Speaking to reporters July 28, Bush stopped short of threatening a veto. “It won't come to vetoing the S&L bill,” he
said. Apparently counting on the Gramm approach, he said, “We have 40-plus votes in the Senate that, staying
firm, will see our proposal prevail.”
Bill Cleared
As days passed, however, the stakes over the financing plan got higher. Bush eventually did issue an overt veto
threat that led to defeat of the conference report in the Senate and a hasty reconvening of conferees.
In the end, a compromise was reached on financing that was acceptable to the president, and the bill cleared in the
early hours of Aug. 5.
Bush's veto threat was made in a letter to Michel just hours before the House was set to vote on the conference
report Aug. 3.
Even among members of the president's own party, the first reactions were negative. “It was bad timing, and it
showed bad political judgment on someone's part,” said Wylie, ranking Republican on the House Banking
Committee. Wylie, who had worked closely with Gonzalez, said he would have preferred that Bush simply accept the
conference agreement.
In the end, however, Bush's strong veto threat — combined with a general public and congressional distaste for the
notion of such a bailout — drove away Republican supporters of the conference report, which was approved by only
a slim majority — 221–199 — in the House. (Vote 214, p. 70-H)
But in the Senate, a 60-vote majority was needed to overcome several procedural points of order that the Gramm-
Rudman law was being violated. Senate Banking Chairman Riegle moved later the same day to waive those points
of order, but the conference report was rejected 54–46 when his motion fell six votes short. Two Democrats — Kent
Conrad of North Dakota and Alan J. Dixon of Illinois — voted against Riegle's motion. One Republican — Pressler
— voted with Riegle. (Vote 166, p. 33-S)
House and Senate leaders then quickly reconvened the conference that evening, with only those involved with the
financing question participating. With most House Democrats on the conference opposed, a compromise was
approved that put two-fifths of the spending on budget in fiscal 1989 — which was nearly over and no longer
needed a Gramm-Rudman exemption — and the rest off budget in fiscal 1990–91.
That did not end the tension, however. Democrats’ emotions were strained by Bush's intransigence, and by the
willingness of the House leadership and House Banking Committee Chairman Gonzalez to accept the compromise.
Gonzalez argued that Democrats should be pleased with housing and consumer provisions in the bill that would be
threatened if the bill were not enacted. And supporters on both sides said the bill was urgently needed to prevent
further losses in insolvent thrifts.
“I urge my colleagues … to recognize even though there are things that they would like to change that if they do and
they defeat the bill tonight, they are responsible for the taxpayers’ coughing up an additional $20 million a day,” said
Garn.
But with so many angry Democrats, it took the better part of Aug. 4 to get a majority of House conferees to sign the
conference report. In the end, only 10 of 34 Democratic House conferees and 19 of 21 Republicans signed on. All
five Senate conferees signed the report.
The bill returned first to the Senate floor, but one opponent, Conrad, prevented action for a time because he wanted
a roll-call vote. Many senators had departed town for a monthlong August recess that was expected to begin
immediately after action on the thrift bill and on a measure to increase the ceiling on the federal debt. Conrad's
demand put absent senators on the spot and threw into doubt whether enough would be present to pass the bill. At
least a dozen Democrats and five Republicans rose to announce they would vote against the bill if there were a roll
call. Conrad eventually agreed not to demand one.
When the conference report was finally ready to be adopted, however, another opponent, Charles E. Grassley, R-
Iowa, demanded a standing vote. At first, with only 11 senators on the floor, that vote went against the bill 4–7. But
a proponent objected that there was no quorum present. After a few moments of scurrying to round up senators
from their hideaway offices off the floor, a second standing vote was taken. This time no one objected to the lack of
a quorum, and the conference report was adopted 17–4.
In the House, the story was much the same, with Democrat after Democrat standing up to denounce the financing
7/3/09 11:55 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 20 of 22http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal89-1138219&type=hitlist&num=11
In the House, the story was much the same, with Democrat after Democrat standing up to denounce the financing
provisions. Four House committee chairmen — John Conyers Jr., D-Mich., of Government Operations; John D. Dingell,
D-Mich., of Energy and Commerce; Leon E. Panetta, D-Calif., of Budget; and Rostenkowski of Ways and Means —
sent a letter Aug. 4 to members urging them to oppose the conference agreement.
But House Democratic leaders urged a vote for the bill, noting that its provisions boosting low-income housing might
be jeopardized by continued wrangling with the administration.
The conference report was finally adopted 201–175. Only 82 of 217 Democrats voting supported the bill; it passed
with the votes of an overwhelming number of Republicans, who were urged earlier in the day by Bush to vote for it.
(Vote 219, p. 72-H)
Features
New Thrift Regulatory Structure
All thrift regulatory and insurance functions previously were consolidated under the Federal Home Loan Bank Board
and the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation (FSLIC), which it managed. After a short transition period
following enactment of the thrift bill, both entities were to go out of existence. Following is the new regulatory
structure for the thrift industry, which began to function immediately upon enactment:
Treasury
Office of Thrift Supervision
charters federal thrifts
supervises state thrifts
supervises thrift holding companies
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC)
Savings Association Insurance Fund (SAIF)
insures thrift deposits
manages assets, liabilities of thrifts insolvent after 1992
FSLIC Resolution Fund
manages remaining assets and liabilities of FSLIC until  assets are sold off
Resolution Trust Corporation (RTC)
manages assets, liabilities of thrifts insolvent before 1993
operated by the FDIC; subject to oversight from five-member board chaired by the Treasury secretary, with secretary of
housing and urban development and chairman of the Federal Reserve Board as members
uses $50 billion provided by Treasury and the Resolution Funding Corporation
terminates after 1996
Resolution Funding Corporation (RefCorp)
borrows $30 billion from public to give to the RTC
purchases zero-coupon bonds using thrift industry money to repay principal on $30 billion
pays interest on $30 billion using receipts from RTC, industry contributions and Treasury funds
Federal Housing Finance Board
oversees Home Loan Bank system
Key Issues in the Thrift Bill
 Issue Conference Agreement
7/3/09 11:55 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 21 of 22http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal89-1138219&type=hitlist&num=11
Capital
Standards
How much “capital” or net worth a savings institution
should be required to maintain; whether intangible assets
such as “supervisory good will” should count as capital;
when regulators should be allowed to seize an institution
with low capital or cut off its deposit insurance.
Conference agreed to require thrifts within 120 days of enactment to have
3 percent “core” capital, as defined for national banks, of which half had to
be “tangible,” essentially cash; thrifts that had supervisory good will would
have to write it off as a component of capital over five years. Thrifts that
did not meet the capital requirements would be subject to limits on asset
growth and potential loss of insurance.
QTL Test What standards an institution should meet to qualify for
special powers and tax benefits granted to thrifts — the
so-called “qualified thrift lender” or QTL test.
Conferees agreed to stiffen QTL requirements as a way to focus the
industry on home loans. Thrifts were required to have 55 percent of their
assets in residential mortgage and construction loans and 70 percent in a
somewhat broader basket that includes consumer loans.
State
Thrift
Powers
Whether state-chartered thrifts should be allowed to invest
directly in real estate and other activities that are not
allowed to federally chartered thrifts (see ‘Junk’ Bonds);
which federal agency should oversee state-chartered
thrifts.
Direct investments by thrifts were banned; capital invested in a thrift
subsidiary that had non-permitted investments must be written off over five
years. The newly created Office of Thrift Supervision would supervise
state-chartered thrifts.
‘Junk’
Bonds
Whether state-chartered thrifts should be allowed to invest
in high-yield, below-investment-grade bonds to a greater
degree than the 11 percent of assets currently allowed
federally chartered thrifts.
Conferees agreed to ban all  “junk” bond investments by thrifts, but permit
them by a separately capitalized affiliate of the thrift. Thrifts were given five
years to sell  off their holdings.
Special
Interests
Whether provisions granting benefits to individual
institutions or groups of institutions should be retained
(most such House provisions were stricken on the floor,
but a few survived; many stricken from the House bill
remain in the Senate version).
Provisions stricken from House bill died in conference, except for one that
was significantly modified and retained. A handful of other special
exceptions survived, including those favoring some mutual  savings banks.
Financing Whether the $50 billion borrowed over the next three years
to close down currently insolvent thrifts should be counted
as part of the federal budget, with an exemption from the
Gramm-Rudman anti-deficit  law, as most Democrats want,
or kept off the books, as the administration and most
Republicans want.
Conferees agreed to put the financing on the budget and not count the
deficit  increase for Gramm-Rudman purposes.
Regulatory
Changes
How much authority and responsibility should flow to the
FDIC, which will take over the fund insuring thrift deposits,
in particular concerning supervision of state-chartered
thrifts (see above) and the Resolution Trust Corporation
(RTC), which will manage real estate and other assets
seized from failed thrifts.
Conferees agreed that the FDIC would manage the RTC, but the FDIC
chairman would not sit on the RTC oversight board. M. Danny Wall,
current Federal Home Loan Bank Board chairman, automatically would
become director of the Office of Thrift Supervision, the thrift-chartering
agency that was to replace the bank board.
Housing Whether to require the 12 regional Federal Home Loan
Banks to set aside $150 million annually in loans to thrifts
to finance low-income housing mortgages; whether
certain low-cost housing taken over by the government
from failed thrifts should be made available to community
housing agencies on a “first-refusal” basis.
Conferees agreed to retain the housing set-aside provision and the “first-
refusal” provision, but the set-aside amount was reduced and the “first
refusal” time period was reduced for multifamily housing.
Consumer
Provisions
Whether mortgage lenders should be required to report
the sex, race and income levels of their loan applicants
and recipients; whether the evaluations of banks and
savings institutions under the anti-redlining Community
Reinvestment Act should be published.
Despite broad opposition from banks and the Federal Reserve System,
conferees agreed to require the additional mortgage data collection and
the Community Reinvestment Act disclosure in somewhat modified forms.
Wall Resigns as Thrift Regulator
The federal government's top savings and loan regulator, M. Danny Wall, announced Dec. 4 that he would resign
from his post as director of the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS), a new agency set up under the savings and loan
salvage bill (HR 1278 — PL 101 - 73).
Wall's credibility on Capitol Hill had become virtually non-existent. He had said throughout most of 1988 that a
taxpayer bailout of the thrift industry's depositinsurance fund was not needed. That did not sit well with many
members, who had to vote in 1989 to spend $159 billion over the next 10 years — and more into the future — to
salvage hundreds of insolvent thrifts.
Perhaps more significantly, Wall had become inextricably tied to the scandal involving Charles H. Keating Jr. and his
failed Lincoln Savings and Loan Association in Irvine, Calif. Paying off depositors after the collapse of Lincoln was
expected to cost $2 billion, and Wall was blamed for moving too slowly to close the thrift — a charge that was heard
repeatedly in hearings on Lincoln conducted during the fall by House Banking Chairman Henry B. Gonzalez, D-
Texas. (Lincoln Savings, p. 133)
Only four months earlier. Wall had weathered a stiff assault from Gonzalez and other House Democrats, who did not
want him to get the OTS job. Wall had been chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, the agency that had
both regulated thrifts and managed the bankrupt fund that insured thrift deposits, the Federal Savings and Loan
Insurance Corporation (FSLIC).
The thrift-salvage bill abolished the bank board and FSLIC, creating in their place OTS and a new insurance fund to
be managed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), which previously insured only bank deposits.
The bill also transferred Wall from the bank board chairmanship to OTS without requiring President Bush to appoint
him or the Senate to confirm his nomination.
Gonzalez pressed to have the bill require a confirmation hearing, but Senate conferees refused to go along. Wall
had worked for 12 years for Jake Garn of Utah, ranking Republican and former chairman of the Senate Banking
Committee.
Two other Senate conferees had an interest in avoiding a Wall confirmation fight — Banking Committee Chairman
Donald W. Riegle Jr., D-Mich., and Alan Cranston, D-Calif.
7/3/09 11:55 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 22 of 22http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal89-1138219&type=hitlist&num=11
Along with three other senators — Democrats Dennis DeConcini of Arizona and John Glenn of Ohio, and
Republican John McCain of Arizona — the two had received sizable political contributions from Keating and his
associates and had intervened with bank board regulators in April 1987 in behalf of Lincoln.
In many respects, however, the six weeks of hearings into Lincoln's failure conducted by the House Banking
Committee amounted to confirmation hearings for Wall.
Wall denied that anyone in the administration had asked him to resign. But administration officials, who had
supported retaining him as the top thrift regulator, did not come to his defense in the wake of calls for his
resignation.
In addition to Gonzalez, Senate Majority Leader George J. Mitchell, D-Maine, also suggested Wall should leave. And
citizens’ groups, led by the National Taxpayers Union and Ralph Nader's Public Citizen, joined in the chorus.
Document Citation
"Sweeping Thrift Bailout Bill  Cleared." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal89-1138219. Originally
published in CQ Almanac 1989 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1990). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal89-
1138219 (accessed July 3, 2009).
Document ID: cqal89-1138219
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal89-1138219
© 1990, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
