7/3/09 1:13 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 5http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal93-1105245&type=hitlist&num=16
Savings and Loan Industry
1996 GOP Wins Passage of Banking Bill
1995 Plan to Bolster Thrift Fund Dies
1993 Thrift Cleanup Financing
Provisions
1993 Hill Votes More Funds for Thrift
Bailout
1992 S&L Bailout Funding Dries Up
1991 Thrift Bailout Fund Replenished
Twice
1990 Bill To Add Thrift Bailout Funds
Dies
1989 Sweeping Thrift Bailout Bill
Cleared
1989 Lincoln Savings Scandal Examined
in Hearings
1988 Thrift Crisis Debated, but Little
Action Taken
1987 Fears About S&L Insurance Fund
Spur Rescue
1982 Savings and Loan Aid, Banking
Law Changes
1981 Aid for Savings & Loans
1980 Savings and Loan Takeovers
1973 Interest On Savings Deposits
1967 S & L Holding Companies
1967 Federal Savings Banks
1966 Interest Rates on Deposits at
Banks Limited
1954 Savings, Loan Branches
Banking
Congressional Ethics
Thrift Cleanup Financing Provisions
An article from CQ Almanac 1993
Document Outline
RTC Financing
RTC Termination
Savings Association Insurance Fund
RTC Management Reforms
Minority Contracting
RTC-FDIC Transition
Affordable Housing
Legal Liabilities
Miscellaneous
After a lengthy delay and a congressional rewrite, President Clinton on Dec.
17 signed into law a bill to conclude the government's salvage operation for
the savings and loan industry (S 714 — PL 103 – 204). The bill provided
$18.3 billion to the Resolution Trust Corporation (RTC) and nothing
immediately to the Savings Association Insurance Fund (SAIF), the thrift
industry's new insurance fund, which was to assume responsibility for thrift
failures in 1995. As enacted, the bill:
RTC Financing
Appropriated $18.3 billion to the RTC to cover depositor losses in failed thrifts.
The money was provided by removing the April 1, 1992, deadline for using
$25 billion appropriated in 1991 (PL 102–233). Only $6.7 billion of that
appropriation had been spent by the prior deadline. (1991 Almanac, p. 98)
Only $10 billion could be used immediately; the remaining $8.3 billion could be
used after the secretary of the Treasury certified that the RTC was complying
with “management reforms” mandated under the bill.
The money could be used only to protect insured depositors or for the
administrative expenses of the RTC and not to benefit shareholders of
insured institutions in any manner.
RTC Termination
Set Dec. 31, 1995, as the termination date for the RTC, instead of Dec. 31, 1996, as under prior law. The Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) was to assume responsibility for all RTC activities, including sales of remaining
thrift assets.
At the same time, the period during which the RTC was to be appointed conservator or receiver of failed thrifts was
extended. The agency's responsibility for such institutions had expired Sept. 30, 1993; it was extended to a date
between Jan. 1 and July 1, 1995, to be determined by the secretary of the Treasury. The extension was to provide
additional time for deposit insurance premiums to flow into the undercapitalized SAIF, before it would be responsible for
resolving failed institutions.
Savings Association Insurance Fund
SAIF financing. Reduced the authorization for future SAIF appropriations from $32 billion to $8 billion and limited the
use of such money to losses incurred by the SAIF in fiscal 1994–98. The SAIF was the thrift industry's new insurance
fund and was operated by the FDIC. The SAIF was to assume from the RTC responsibility for thrifts that failed after the
RTC's authority to take institutions into conservatorship or receivership had lapsed in the first half of 1995.
The requirement under prior law that the Treasury capitalize the SAIF to $8.8 billion by fiscal 1999 was repealed. In the
unlikely event that the SAIF's reserves were equal to or greater than 1.25 percent of insured deposits before 1998, no
further appropriation was allowed.
 
7/3/09 1:13 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 5http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal93-1105245&type=hitlist&num=16
Any money transferred to the SAIF that was not needed to pay off depositors was to revert to the Treasury.
Any RTC money remaining after that agency finished its portion of the cleanup could be turned over to the SAIF, starting
at the end of 1995. The money would be subject to certification requirements outlined below.
Certification. Required the chairman of the FDIC to certify to Congress each fiscal year that several conditions had
been met before any appropriated money could flow to the SAIF. Among the conditions were requirements that the
money would be needed to cover losses expected in the coming year and that an increase in thrift deposit insurance
premiums would be detrimental to the industry's financial health and lead to more, costly thrift failures.
The FDIC was given flexibility to extend the 15-year schedule under which the SAIF was to be fully capitalized, thereby
allowing the FDIC to reduce deposit insurance premiums. Such action could be taken only if the FDIC determined that
such a move would, over time, increase SAIF revenue by allowing more institutions to remain viable to pay premiums.
The change was aimed at easing a potential “premium differential” that would result if, as expected, the Bank Insurance
Fund (BIF) became fully capitalized before the SAIF, and that bank deposit insurance premiums thereby were reduced.
RTC Management Reforms
Required the RTC to adopt a series of management reforms, including:
Developing a comprehensive business plan for the balance of the cleanup.
Creating a small-investor program under which the RTC was required to sell real property assets on an individual basis
for 120 days after acquiring such assets. An exception was allowed in cases in which a buyer purchased a thrift and
took over its asset portfolio, while assuming the thrift's liabilities.
Requiring real property assets valued at $400,000 or less or non-performing real estate loans of $1 million or less to be
analyzed to maximize recovery of government money and to allow broader participation by qualified bidders. The bill
required that assets be analyzed on an individual basis and that the analysis be accompanied by a management and
disposition plan.
Appointing a chief financial officer, deputy chief executive officer and assistant general counsel for the agency.
Strengthening its system for awarding and overseeing contracts, including those for legal services. The agency was
required to appoint a new executive senior officer to set uniform standards for contracting and enforcement. The RTC
also was required to issue uniform procurement guidelines to prevent the acquisition of goods and services at widely
different prices.
Submitting to additional oversight by a new audit committee established by the Thrift Depositor Protection Oversight
Board. The committee was to oversee the RTC's improvement of internal controls.
Responding better to problems brought to RTC management's attention by auditors, the inspector general, the General
Accounting Office (GAO) and the RTC audit committee, or certifying that no action was necessary.
Maintaining an effective management information system and strengthening internal controls against waste, fraud and
abuse.
Including in its annual report an itemization of agency expenditures, a disclosure of the compensation of executives of
thrifts in conservatorship or receivership and a semiannual comprehensive litigation report of all professional liability
cases.
Reducing the cost of the RTC's legal services by using staff attorneys whenever they could provide the same quality
legal services as outside counsel at the same or lower cost. Outside counsel could be hired only if it would be
practicable, efficient, cost-effective and under a negotiated fee, contingent fee or competitively bid fee agreement.
Creating a “client responsiveness” unit at every RTC regional office.
Establishing a process for business and commercial borrowers to appeal lending decisions made by the RTC when it is
managing failed thrifts.
Submitting to an evaluation by the GAO, which was to make two reports — one within six months and another within
one year — on the progress made by the RTC in complying with the management reforms. The reports were to include
information on the sale of performing assets by the RTC.
Notifying the General Services Administration (GSA), which managed federal buildings, and providing specific
information about commercial office buildings the RTC acquires. The GSA could bid on such buildings, which otherwise
would be subject to a competitive bidding process.
Minority Contracting
7/3/09 1:13 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 5http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal93-1105245&type=hitlist&num=16
Required the RTC to implement provisions designed to improve the agency's record in providing business
opportunities to minorities and women when issuing RTC contracts or selling assets. In implementing these
provisions, the RTC was required to continue to conduct the bailout in a manner that resulted in the least cost to
taxpayers. The RTC was required to:
Division of Minority and Women's Programs. Create and maintain a Division of Minorities and Women's Programs, to
be headed by a vice president of the RTC who also was a member of the RTC's executive committee.
Basic ordering agreements. Take greater steps to ensure that lists of eligible contractors (basic ordering agreements)
contained as many minority- and female-owned businesses as possible. This provision was aimed at providing greater
allocation of RTC contracts to minority- and female-owned businesses. In addition, the RTC was to revise its procedure
for reviewing applicants for future contracts to ensure that small businesses, minorities and women were not
inadvertently excluded.
Parity guidelines. Establish guidelines — which were not to have the force of law — for achieving the goal of a
reasonably even distribution of contracts awarded to minority- and female-owned businesses and law firms among
various subgroups such as women, blacks, Hispanics and Asian-Americans. The provision came in response to
complaints by minority groups that businesses and law firms owned by white women received contracts at the expense
of minorities.
Subcontracting requirements. Require any contractor that received an RTC contract worth $500,000 or more for
services (such as accounting or legal services) to subcontract with minority-or female-owned businesses unless no
such subcontractor was available. This provision was not to apply if such subcontracting would significantly increase the
cost of the contract or hinder the ability of the contractor to fulfill  the contract.
Sanctions. Draft sanctions, including contract penalties and suspensions for contractors who did not comply with joint
venturing and minority subcontracting requirements.
Minority preference in acquisition of institutions. Give priority to minorities and minority-owned businesses that bid
for thrifts in RTC conservatorship or receivership that were in minority neighborhoods — provided that such a sale would
not result in greater cost to the taxpayer than would non-minority offers.
RTC-FDIC Transition
Extended to the FDIC a series of RTC regulations concerning management practices. These regulations reflected
lessons learned from the RTC and were to be applied to the FDIC because that agency — in its role of managing
the SAIF — would assume a much larger asset disposition workload than it previously had. The provisions:
Conflict of interest. Required the FDIC to issue regulations governing agency employees or contractors regarding
conflict of interest, ethical responsibilities and the use of confidential information by independent contractors.
Restrictions on asset sales. Barred those who had engaged in questionable or illegal practices from buying assets
from the FDIC. The agency was given flexibility to write such rules, but at a minimum the rules had to bar those who had
defaulted on debts of $1 million or more to a failed thrift and engaged in fraud from buying FDIC assets, particularly
through credit extended by the FDIC or FDIC-seized thrifts. In addition, directors or officers of failed thrifts who had
“materially participated” in transactions that produced large thrift losses, had been barred by federal regulators from
participating in the business affairs of failed institutions or had engaged in embezzlement were to be barred from buying
FDIC-controlled assets.
Asset Disposition Division. Established a new and separate Division of Asset Disposition within the FDIC, effective
July 1, 1995, to conduct the agency's liquidation of insured banks and thrifts and disposition of their assets. The
provision merged the asset disposition functions of the SAIF and the BIF.
Affordable Housing
Housing stock. Expanded the existing affordable housing programs of the RTC and the FDIC by broadening the
potential affordable housing stock of the two agencies. Under the programs, the RTC and the FDIC sold such housing at
market or below-market prices and provided loans at market or below-market rates to individuals and groups to
purchase housing stock from failed thrifts and banks.
The limit for RTC-eligible single-family properties was raised from $67,500 to $101,250, but money to cover the cost
had to be separately appropriated.
Expanded the FDIC affordable housing program to include properties owned by real estate subsidiaries of institutions in
conservatorship or receivership. Under prior law, properties were eligible only if title was held directly by the FDIC.
Information. Required the FDIC and RTC to provide additional information on the availability of residential properties to
agencies and housing groups through clearinghouses, including information about suitable properties not within the
statutory scope of the housing programs.
Required the RTC and the FDIC to provide information periodically on the availability and terms of seller financing under
their affordable housing programs to minority- and women-owned businesses and to minority-controlled nonprofit
7/3/09 1:13 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 5http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal93-1105245&type=hitlist&num=16
their affordable housing programs to minority- and women-owned businesses and to minority-controlled nonprofit
organizations.
Advisory board. Established an Affordable Housing Advisory Board to advise the RTC's oversight board and the FDIC
board of directors about the affordable housing program and other policies regarding the provision of affordable
housing.
Joint management. Unified the management of the RTC and FDIC affordable housing programs to run the programs
more efficiently and save administrative costs.
Property sales. Gave tenants of residential properties acquired by the RTC and the FDIC right of first refusal to
purchase the properties.
Gave groups that housed the homeless preference in buying RTC and FDIC properties, provided that the revenue from
such sales was substantially similar to other sales under the affordable housing program.
Authorized the RTC and the FDIC to conduct expedited sales of commercial real estate to public agencies and nonprofit
groups involved in providing low-income housing and shelter for the homeless. The properties were to be used as
administrative offices.
Housing opportunity hotline. Required each of the Federal Home Loan Banks to establish a toll-free hotline to provide
information on federally owned and controlled single-family homes to prospective buyers. Properties held by the
Farmers Home Administration, the FDIC, the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage
Corporation, the GSA, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), the RTC and the Department of
Veterans Affairs were to be covered.
GAO study. Required the GAO to conduct a study of the effectiveness of the RTC Affordable Housing Program.
Legal Liabilities
Statute of limitations. Increased the statute of limitations on RTC civil lawsuits from three years to five, or to the period
provided in state law, whichever was longer, to give agency lawyers additional time to sue thrift officials for negligence
and fraud.
In cases in which the statute of limitations already had expired, claims could be revived for fraud and intentional
misconduct resulting in unjust enrichment or substantial loss to the thrift. Such offenses typically were not covered by
liability insurance policies purchased for thrift officers and directors.
If the statute of limitations had not yet expired, it was extended for a wider set of offenses, including gross negligence or
any offense more egregious than gross negligence.
Due process protections. Modified the authority of bank regulators to seize assets of financial institutions. Under the
1990 crime bill (PL 101–647), bank regulators (Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Office of Thrift Supervision,
Federal Reserve and the FDIC) were given sweeping authority to freeze the assets of banks and thrifts involved in
fraud. Under law, such prejudgment attachments generally were allowed only when authorities could show that they
were likely to win in court; that the assets were at risk of being dissipated; and that a failure to seize assets would
cause immediate and irreparable harm to the government.
The 1990 crime bill relaxed this standard, giving bank regulators broad authority to seize assets without having to prove
that each of the three conditions existed. But the RTC and the FDIC, in their roles as conservators or receivers of failed
institutions, were not given the same sweeping authority. Instead, they were only exempted from the requirement to
show immediate and irreparable harm. The measure scaled back the authority of bank regulators to make it equal to the
standard for the RTC and FDIC.
Miscellaneous
Bonus limits. Barred bonuses to FDIC employees working for the RTC or SAIF that exceeded those paid other federal
officials. No bonuses could be paid to employees who announced their intention to take private-sector jobs. No RTC
employee could receive total compensation in excess of the compensation provided to the chief executive officer of the
RTC.
Whistleblower protection. Expanded whistleblower protections to include RTC employees and contractors who
reported agency problems to authorities. The measure protected those who reported possible violations of laws or
regulations by RTC officials, gross mismanagement and abuses of authority. In addition, it relaxed the burden of proof
and broadened the scope of such protections to include FDIC contractors. Prior law applied whistleblower protections
only to those who reported “violations of law or regulation.” Whistleblower protections extended to RTC contractors were
also extended to FDIC contractors.
BIF moratorium. Continued an existing moratorium on SAIF members converting to BIF membership until  the SAIF had
attained its designated reserve ratio of 1.25 percent. This provision reflected concerns that thrifts might be tempted to
convert to banks in order to elude higher deposit insurance premiums. Any FDIC borrowing for the SAIF would be
repaid by SAIF members; any borrowing for the BIF would be repaid by BIF members.
Shareholder protection. BIF and SAIF money could be used only to protect insured depositors and not to benefit
shareholders of insured institutions in any manner.
7/3/09 1:13 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 5http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal93-1105245&type=hitlist&num=16
RTC contracting. Prohibited RTC employees from executing a contract unless the employee was a warranted
contracting officer or the managing agent in charge of a thrift in conservatorship. Contracts not meeting this requirement
were invalid. The RTC was required to award all contracts in excess of $100,000 on a fixed-price basis or to provide an
explanation of why a cost estimate of the contract was impractical.
Final reports on RTC, SAIF financing. Required the secretary of the Treasury to issue a final report detailing how RTC
money was used. The chairman of the FDIC was required to issue a comparable report on how the SAIF spent its
money. Required the RTC to include in its annual report an itemization of agency expenditures, a disclosure of the
compensation of executives of thrifts in conservatorship or receivership and a semiannual comprehensive-litigation
report of all professional liability cases.
GAO study. Required the GAO to study the feasibility and effectiveness of establishing a single federal agency
responsible for selling and otherwise disposing of real property owned or held by HUD, the Farmers Home
Administration, the FDIC and the RTC.
FDIC inspector general. Required that the inspector general of the FDIC be appointed by the president rather than by
the agency.
Justice Department report. Required, no later than 90 days after enactment, that the Justice Department submit to
Congress a report on the status of efforts to monitor and improve the collection of fines and restitution in cases involving
fraud and other criminal activity in and against the financial services industry.
Auctioneers. Required the RTC to provide semiannual reports to detail procedures for selecting auctioneers for RTC
asset sales with anticipated gross proceeds of $1.5 million or less.
Document Citation
"Thrift Cleanup Financing Provisions." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal93-1105245. Originally
published in CQ Almanac 1993 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1994). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal93-
1105245 (accessed July 3, 2009).
Document ID: cqal93-1105245
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal93-1105245
© 1994, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
