7/9/09 4:29 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 1 of 2http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d109:SN03850:@@@D&summ2=m&|TOM:/bss/d109query.html|
The Library of Congress > THOMAS Home > Bills, Resolutions > Search Results
NEW SEARCH | HOME | HELP | ABOUT SUMMARIES
S.3850 
Title: An original bill to improve ratings quality for the protection of investors and in the public
interest by fostering accountability, transparency, and competition in the credit rating agency
industry. 
Sponsor: Sen Shelby, Richard C. [AL] (introduced 9/6/2006)      Cosponsors (None) 
Related Bills: H.R.2990 
Latest Major Action: Became Public Law No: 109-291 [GPO: Text, PDF] 
Senate Reports: 109-326
SUMMARY AS OF: 
9/29/2006--Public Law.    (There are 4 other summaries)
(This measure has not been amended since it was passed by the Senate on September
22, 2006. The summary of that version is repeated here.)
Credit Rating Agency Reform Act of 2006 - (Sec. 4) Amends the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
to require nationally recognized statistical rating organizations (NRSROs) to register with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Requires registration applications, among other items, to include on a confidential basis: (1) a
list of the 20 largest securities issuers and subscribers that use the applicant's rating services;
and (2) certifications from at least 10 qualified institutional buyers (QIBs) that they have used
the ratings for at least the three most recent years, including two certifications for each type of
rating the applicant will issue. Exempts from the latter written certification requirement any
credit rating agency which has received, or been the subject of, a no-action letter from the SEC
staff before August 2, 2006, stating that such staff would not recommend enforcement action
against any broker or dealer that considers credit ratings issued by such credit rating agency to
be ratings from an NRSRO.
Requires the SEC within 90 days of receiving an application to grant registration or institute
proceedings to determine whether not to. Requires the SEC to grant registration unless the
applicant does not have adequate financial and managerial resources to consistently produce
credit ratings with integrity and to comply materially with the procedures and methodologies
disclosed in its application.
Requires each NRSRO to certify annually that the application documents (other than the QIB
certifications) remain accurate, and to list any material changes that occurred.
Grants the SEC exclusive enforcement authority over any NRSRO that issues credit ratings in
material contravention of the procedures included in its registration application.
Prohibits the SEC or any state or or local government from regulating the substance of credit
ratings or the procedures and methodologies by which a NRSRO determines credit ratings.
Requires SEC rules to be narrowly tailored, and not purport to regulate either the substance of
credit ratings or the procedures and methodologies by which NRSROs determine credit ratings.
Provides for censure, denial, suspension, or revocation of NRSRO registration.
States that it shall be unlawful for: (1) an NRSRO to represent or imply that it has been
designated, sponsored, recommended, or approved, or that its abilities or qualifications have in
any respect been passed upon, by the United States or any federal agency, officer, or employee;
or (2) a credit rating agency that is not registered as a NRSRO under this Act to state that it is
so registered.
Requires each NRSRO to establish and enforce written policies and procedures to: (1) prevent
the misuse of nonpublic information; and (2) manage conflicts of interest.
7/9/09 4:29 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 2 of 2http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d109:SN03850:@@@D&summ2=m&|TOM:/bss/d109query.html|
Directs the SEC to issue final rules to prohibit unfair, coercive, or abusive acts or practices by
NRSROs. Includes among such acts: (1) conditioning or threatening to condition an issuer's
credit rating on the purchase of other services or products; (2) lowering or threatening to lower
a credit rating, or refusing to rate securities or money market instruments issued by an asset
pool, unless a portion of the assets in the pool also is rated by the NRSRO; and (3) modifying or
threatening to modify a credit rating based on whether the issuer or an affiliate will purchase
other services from the NRSRO.
Requires an NRSRO to: (1) designate a compliance officer to ensure compliance with securities
laws, rules, and regulations; and (2) furnish the SEC with financial statements certified by an
independent public accountant.
Makes registration under this Act the sole method of NRSRO registration. Prohibits any credit
rating agency treated as an NRSRO before enactment of this Act from relying on no-action relief
for continued treatment as an NRSRO in lieu of active registration.
Preempts any state and local law requiring the registration, licensing, or qualification of an
NRSRO (or any employee or contractor) as a credit rating agency or an NRSRO. Declares,
however, that nothing in this preemption prohibits a state securities commission (or similar
agency or office) from investigating and bringing an enforcement action with respect to fraud or
deceit against any NRSRO or associated person.
Amends the following Acts to reflect the provisions of this Act: (1) Securities Exchange Act of
1934; (2) Investment Company Act of 1940; (3) Investment Advisers Act of 1940; (4) Housing
and Community Development Act of 1992; and (5) Higher Education Act of 1965.
Amends the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 to exclude any NRSRO from the meaning of
investment adviser unless it engages in issuing recommendations as to purchasing, selling, or
holding securities or in managing assets, consisting in whole or in part of securities, on behalf of
others.
(Sec. 6) Directs the SEC to report annually to specified congressional committees on: (1)
applicants for NRSRO registration; (2) actions taken on such applications; and (3) the views of
the SEC on the state of competition, transparency, and conflicts of interest among NRSROs.
(Sec. 7) Requires the Comptroller General to study and report to certain congressional
committees on the impact of this Act upon: (1) the quality of credit ratings issued by NRSROs;
(2) the financial markets; (3) competition among credit rating agencies; and (4) the incidence of
inappropriate conflicts of interest and sales practices by NRSROs.
THOMAS Home | Contact | Accessibility | Legal | FirstGov
