7/3/09 12:25 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110029&type=hitlist&num=7
Savings and Loan Industry
1996 GOP Wins Passage of Banking Bill
1995 Plan to Bolster Thrift Fund Dies
1993 Thrift Cleanup Financing
Provisions
1993 Hill Votes More Funds for Thrift
Bailout
1992 S&L Bailout Funding Dries Up
1991 Thrift Bailout Fund Replenished
Twice
1990 Bill To Add Thrift Bailout Funds
Dies
1989 Sweeping Thrift Bailout Bill
Cleared
1989 Lincoln Savings Scandal Examined
in Hearings
1988 Thrift Crisis Debated, but Little
Action Taken
1987 Fears About S&L Insurance Fund
Spur Rescue
1982 Savings and Loan Aid, Banking
Law Changes
1981 Aid for Savings & Loans
1980 Savings and Loan Takeovers
1973 Interest On Savings Deposits
1967 S & L Holding Companies
1967 Federal Savings Banks
1966 Interest Rates on Deposits at
Banks Limited
1954 Savings, Loan Branches
Banking
Congressional Ethics
Thrift Bailout Fund Replenished Twice
An article from CQ Almanac 1991
Document Outline
Round 1:$30 Billion
Round 2: $25 Billion More
Features
On both sides of Capitol Hill, revulsion against the rising cost of salvaging
failed savings and loan associations delayed efforts in 1991 to keep the
bailout operation moving — and threatened at one point to derail it.
Twice during the year, Congress passed bills that included provisions to
spend more taxpayers' money for the thrift bailout: S 419 in March that
provided $30 billion, and HR 3435 in November that provided $25 billion
more.
Both times it seemed as if institutional intransigence would prevent action on
the bills, and it was only the pressure of strong leadership, particularly in the
House, that permitted passage.
Congress was forced to vote early and often on the issue for several reasons.
Members refused to consider the administration's request for a permanent
appropriation for the Resolution Trust Corporation (RTC), the bailout agency
created in August 1989. Such an action would have given the RTC whatever
money it needed to cover depositor losses that were guaranteed by the
government. And it would have avoided periodic trips to the congressional
well. But members argued that such a move would have removed their
oversight control. House Speaker Thomas S. Foley, D-Wash. who constantly
worried that the House was tying itself in knots over the RTC, was the only
member to vocally support a permanent appropriation.
Another reason Congress had to act in early 1991 was that it had refused in
late 1990 to act on an administration request for $30 billion for the RTC. That
request was left hanging when the 101st Congress adjourned in 1990, and
was waiting on the doorstep when the 102nd Congress convened in January
1991. (1990 Almanac, p. 179)
The final reason for the repeated votes was that the cost of the bailout continued to climb. When the RTC was
created, Congress gave it $50 billion to close failed and failing thrifts. By mid-1990, the administration had conceded
that the $50 billion would not come close to completing the job.
Through Dec. 31, 1990, the RTC had closed 531 thrifts and sold two-thirds of those, leaving 179 still under its
control. Administration officials estimated that as many as 500 more thrifts could require government action.
Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady had said in mid-1990 that $90 billion to $130 billion would be needed over the
RTC's life. In mid-1991 — after Congress had given the RTC $30 billion on top of the original $50 billion — Brady
asked for $80 billion more, upping the total estimate of losses in failed thrifts to $160 billion. (The higher number
corresponded to the $130 billion estimate of the previous year, adjusted for inflation, he said.) (1989 Almanac, p.
117)
As its final act before adjourning in 1991, Congress passed HR 3435, giving the RTC whatever money it needed to
stay in business through April 1, 1992, up to a maximum of $25 billion. That was far below the $80 billion
requested, and it ensured that Congress would visit the issue at least one more time in early 1992.
Tied to that bill was a series of management reforms.
Opposition to the bailout came from many corners. And an unusual alliance of liberal and conservative groups,
ranging from the populist Financial Democracy Campaign to the National Taxpayers Union, found itself opposing the
administration's requests for more money. They wanted both a reduction in taxpayer-financed spending and better
management of the hundreds of billions of dollars in loans, real estate and other assets the RTC had acquired from
failed thrifts. The opponents did not succeed in forcing a wholesale change in the bailout's financing, or win all the
 
7/3/09 12:25 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110029&type=hitlist&num=7
failed thrifts. The opponents did not succeed in forcing a wholesale change in the bailout's financing, or win all the
management changes they sought.
The administration signaled on Feb. 28 that it would not accept changes in the salvage operation attached to the
financing bill that Congress considered at the beginning of the year. That, in turn, angered House Banking
Committee Chairman Henry B. Gonzalez, D-Texas who denounced the administration's “all-or-nothing intransigence.”
By year's end, the administration had been to the well so often that it could neither get all the money it wanted nor
fend off management changes to the bailout that it opposed.
Round 1:$30 Billion
Treasury Secretary Brady appealed to the Senate Banking Committee on Jan. 23, warning that a delay in giving the
RTC more money would require it to shut down after Feb. 28, greatly adding to the bailout's cost.
There were no new issues raised in early 1991 that had not been debated continually since the bailout got under
way in 1989. But despite the seeming urgency, it still took two months — until March 21 — for Congress to approve
the $30 billion.
Both chambers had difficulty acting, but the House, in particular, went through agony, rejecting multiple bills in
committee and on the floor before finally settling on a package that was acceptable to a majority of the membership.
Senate Committee
The Senate Banking Committee met Feb. 5 and by voice vote approved S 419 to provide the RTC with the $30
billion requested by the administration.
Senators were clearly unhappy with the circumstances, reflected in their willingness to send such a significant
measure to the floor without a roll-call vote. But they had a relatively easy time at their markup session on the bill,
especially in light of what was to happen on the Senate floor and in the House.
Lawmakers such as John Kerry, D-Mass. and Bob Graham, D-Fla. said they found it difficult to give the RTC more
money without requiring greater management accountability. And some wanted the RTC to sell assets it had bought
from failed thrifts to finance its activities. “It is hard to justify appropriating $30 billion to an institution that has over
$140 billion in assets, two-thirds of which are liquid,” Graham argued.
But committee Chairman Donald W. Riegle Jr., D-Mich. convinced skeptical lawmakers that the need was too urgent
to permit delays. And, although the RTC had assets it could sell, the proceeds were earmarked to repay so-called
working capital borrowed by the agency to acquire the assets in the first place.
By voice vote, the committee agreed to an amendment by Jake Garn, R-Utah to exempt RTC officials from securities
laws regulating the packaging of thrift assets into blocks of securities for sale to the public. Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (FDIC) Chairman L. William Seidman, who also headed the bailout, had expressed concern
that RTC officials could be the subject of lawsuits stemming from the sale of the asset-backed securities.
Seidman wanted a blanket liability exemption for the RTC, arguing that the legal question had effectively blocked
sales of some assets, slowing down the bailout.
Senate Floor
The Senate began floor debate on S 419 on Feb. 26. But the measure was pulled from consideration two days later
after Howard M. Metzenbaum, D-Ohio an arduous RTC critic, threatened “extended debate” on the measure — a
euphemism for a filibuster. The bill was also threatened by a flock of amendments to reduce the amount of money
or alter the way the salvage operation was managed.
On March 5, the Senate returned to S 419, passing the bill by a 69–30 vote late March 7. But sponsors had to fend
off a half-dozen RTC management accountability amendments that they said would jeopardize enactment. (Vote 25,
p. 5–S)
Banking Chairman Riegle scheduled a hearing for April 11 on RTC management problems to deflect most
amendments. “Let us provide enough money to carry them… through the end of September and give us time to see
how the machinery itself might be re-engineered,” Riegle urged his colleagues on the floor.
The Senate floor debate was neither illuminating nor particularly energetic. Although the chamber had the bill under
consideration for the better part of six days, much of the time was spent in quorum calls, a peculiar form of
parliamentary limbo endemic to the Senate.
Metzenbaum's filibuster threats disappeared a day or two after he met Feb. 27 with Seidman. In the end,
Metzenbaum offered one of only two amendments accepted, clarifying language already in the law requiring the
RTC to find ways to reduce the cost of nearly 200 thrifts closed in 1988 with financial guarantees backed by the
government. Metzenbaum had made a cause of these pre-bailout 1988 deals and repeatedly but unsuccessfully
called for the government to repudiate them.
The Senate also accepted an administration-drafted amendment to language previously adopted in committee to
clarify that the officers and directors of the RTC could not be held personally liable for the agency's actions to
7/3/09 12:25 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110029&type=hitlist&num=7
clarify that the officers and directors of the RTC could not be held personally liable for the agency's actions to
package and sell mortgages and securities that were taken from failed thrifts.
In three lopsided, roll call votes March 6, the Senate rejected the following amendments:
By Tom Harkin, D-Iowa to cut the RTC's financing to $15 billion and stipulate that future requests for money would have
to be accompanied by proposals to raise taxes in a progressive manner to cover the additional spending. The
amendment was defeated on a tabling motion, 71–28. (Vote 21, p. 4–S )
By Bob Kerrey, D-Neb. to eliminate the dual management structure of the RTC, replacing the agency's oversight board
and its board of directors with a single board of directors. The amendment was defeated on a tabling motion, 63–37.
(Vote 22, p. 4–S )
By Graham to limit the RTC's additional financing to $15 billion but provide an additional $15 billion on a dollar-for-dollar
basis with the net proceeds from the sale of assets held by the RTC. The amendment was defeated on a tabling motion,
80–19. (Vote 23, p. 4–S )
House Banking Committee
On Feb. 26, as the Senate was being frustrated in its efforts to act on an RTC financing bill, the House Banking
Committee addressed the issue for the first time in early 1991.
The panel spent 10 hours debating a bill (HR 1103) to provide $30 billion to the RTC before killing it on a 19–31
vote. All the Republicans and a third of the Democrats voted against sending the measure to the House floor.
The final vote came only after the committee had adopted a raft of controversial amendments, including one to
require that future infusions of cash for the bailout be financed either by increased taxes or offsetting spending cuts.
Amendment authors Joseph P. Kennedy II, D-Mass., and Jim Slattery, D-Kan. said it was intended to force Congress
to find a way to pay for the salvage operation up front, rather than through borrowing tens of billions of dollars and
paying hundreds of billions more in interest costs over the next 30 years. But the amendment was opposed strongly
by Republicans and by Speaker Foley and was seen by some as the killer amendment on the bill.
Another adopted amendment seen as a key roadblock to passage would have required states with large numbers of
failed thrifts to pay part of the cleanup cost if they wanted their state-chartered institutions to remain eligible for
deposit insurance.
Similar amendments were defeated during consideration of the original thrift salvage bill in 1989.
The aborted markup renewed questions about Gonzalez's ability to manage the committee. He had survived a
challenge in December 1990 to his re-election as chairman that was based in large part on his relationships with
committee members and on the sometimes chaotic way the committee operated.
But the day after the bill was killed, Gonzalez said the committee had merely been working its will. And he insisted
that any new money would have to be accompanied by provisions making the RTC more accountable.
Gonzalez met with Foley on the afternoon of Feb. 27 and again on Feb. 28 to see if there was a way to get the
refinancing bill back on track. But there was no consensus on how to proceed. Gonzalez pointedly warned of a
“blood-letting” on the House floor if the leadership tried to bypass the committee and call up a financing bill devoid
of the amendments.
The committee met again two weeks later, on March 7, the same day the Senate was finally able to pass its RTC
bill. Compared with the panel's prior contentious and ultimately unsuccessful effort, the second markup session was
a cakewalk.
In a March 1 letter to his Democratic colleagues, Gonzalez telegraphed the message he had been given in several
meetings with Foley. “The leadership strongly recommends that we produce a bill Republicans can support,” he
wrote. And when the committee convened, it was immediately clear that Gonzalez had cut a deal with ranking
Republican Chalmers P. Wylie of Ohio to keep the markup from breaking down again.
The committee ultimately approved not one but two bills on March 7:
HR 1221, sponsored by Gonzalez, a slimmed-down measure providing $30 billion and containing some of the
controversial provisions embraced a week earlier by the panel's Democratic majority.
HR 1315, sponsored by Wylie, a “clean” bill containing only the requested $30 billion.
The committee first approved HR 1315, on a 36–13 vote, after Gonzalez and Wylie cooperated to keep it free of
amendments.
The committee then approved HR 1221, on a 38–13 vote. That bill included provisions to require the RTC to use
the “least cost” method of closing failed thrifts, increasing the amount of housing held by the RTC that was eligible
for a special program aimed at low-income buyers and nonprofit housing agencies, and calling for the RTC to set
aside 25 percent of its contracts for companies headed by minorities and women.
7/3/09 12:25 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110029&type=hitlist&num=7
This last provision was criticized as a quota by Republicans. But HR 1221 was kept free of all but one technical
amendment intended to deflect complaints that the measure violated congressional budget rules.
The agreement to allow both bills out of committee was obvious: Of the committee's 31 Democrats, 21 voted in
favor of Wylie's bill; in return, 12 of 20 committee Republicans supported Gonzalez's bill.
House Rules Committee
The Rules Committee heard the afternoon of March 7 from many of the committee members whose amendments
had been adopted the week before but were either rejected or not allowed to be offered at the second markup. The
Rules panel then politely decided to keep most of the amendments off the floor.
The committee then crafted a complicated floor procedure designed to give members an opportunity to vote as
many as four times for the extra $30 billion for the RTC. Each vote was tied to a different scheme to make the
bailout agency more accountable or to finance it directly rather than through long-term borrowing. At the base was
Wylie's bill (HR 1315), which would have simply provided the RTC with $30 billion. Under this “king of the hill”
procedure, the last version passed was to be the one approved — regardless of the vote totals.
House Floor
Like the Banking Committee, the full House had to try twice in early 1991 before it succeeded in passing a bill
replenishing the RTC's coffers. One effort failed March 12, but with the House leadership in control the next day, a
second effort finally succeeded.
When the House convened March 12 to debate the RTC question, it had all four alternatives before it — amounting
to two Republican and two Democratic options.
After about seven hours of debate, all four options were defeated. They were:
A proposal sponsored by Slattery and Kennedy that was similar to the amendment they offered in committee to require
tax increases or spending cuts to pay for future RTC financing beyond the $30 billion. The Slattery-Kennedy alternative
was defeated, 186–237, but was the only option to win the support of a majority of Democrats. It got only six GOP
votes, however. (Vote 39, p. 10–H)
A proposal by Wylie that would have required the RTC to report on efforts at improving its management and contracting
with businesses headed by minorities and women. Wylie's substitute was expected to draw some moderate Democratic
support, but it wound up with only 39 votes from that side of the aisle. It was defeated 190–235. However, the bill that
came back to the House floor the next day — and that passed — was modeled closely on this alternative. (Vote 40, p.
10-H)
A proposal by Gonzalez that would have expanded the RTC's role in increasing the nation's stock of affordable housing,
granted new tenant-rights protections to renters in RTC-owned apartments, given nonprofit groups a shot at acquiring
environmentally sensitive lands held by the RTC, and set a goal that 25 percent of the RTC's contracts for asset
management and disposition be earmarked for businesses headed by minorities and women. The contracting provision
was a key sticking point. Republicans denounced it as a quota, but many liberal Democrats insisted on it. In the end,
fewer than half the Democrats voted yes, and the option was defeated, 121–303. (Vote 41, p. 10–H)
Wylie's clean bill.  It was defeated 201–220, with three-fourths of the Republicans but less than a third of the Democrats
in favor. (Vote 42, p. 10–H)
A breakdown in Democratic leadership strategy contributed to the failure of all four options. Foley, who had wanted
the RTC financing issue disposed of quickly and quietly, had previously signaled his support for the clean bill. He
had spoken against the Slattery-Kennedy alternative. And the Rules Committee — an arm of the leadership — had
concocted a procedure for floor debate that seemed to give an edge to the Republican alternatives.
But at some point between the Rules Committee meeting March 7 and the floor vote March 12, Democratic leaders
decided that they would work for adoption of Gonzalez's alternative, even though Republicans were united against it.
When the Democratic whips met the morning of March 12, it was apparent that all four options would be defeated,
according to members who attended. But Democrats stuck with their plan.
When the Gonzalez substitute failed and the House moved quickly to vote on final passage of Wylie's bill, there was
no effort to persuade members to vote yes and get on with other business. Members stood in the aisles and well of
the House watching the electronic vote boards as the measure slowly went down to defeat. Most committee
chairmen voted no. So did a majority of Banking Committee members, including Gonzalez and most of the panel's
senior Democrats, though they more than others knew the money had been promised to depositors and had to be
provided sooner or later.
The eventual passage of a bill took intervention at the highest levels.
After the defeats on March 12, both sides dug in their heels. On the morning of March 13, President Bush called
Foley, urging him to find a way to give more money to the RTC. The compromise that finally attracted a majority of
the House — but importantly, not a majority of Democrats — was hammered out early that afternoon in Foley's
office by the Speaker, Republican leader Robert H. Michel of Illinois and Brady. Gonzalez and Wylie were present,
as were RTC officials and aides.
7/3/09 12:25 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110029&type=hitlist&num=7
The compromise essentially was to take the rejected Wylie alternative and add a portion of Gonzalez's language on
affordable housing.
The easiest way to proceed was to call up S 419, the Senate-passed bill, and amend it. So in a hurry-up meeting
late March 13, the Rules Committee agreed to that approach.
There was some doubt that the House would agree to the procedure. It bypassed a rule requiring that measures lay
over before they are considered, and thus a two-thirds majority had to agree to debate the bill. But opponents chose
not to band together to defeat the procedural motion. After two more hours of debate, the House first voted 213–197
to amend the Senate measure with the compromise language. It then passed the amended bill by a 192–181 vote.
The compromise got roughly the same amount of Republican support as Wylie's bill had the previous night; it just
picked up enough extra Democrats to pass. (Votes 50, 51, pp. 12-H, 14-H)
Passage did not come without a last moment of drama. With the running electronic tally at 144–145, Foley stepped
down from the Speaker's rostrum, picked up a green card — signifying a yes vote — and handed it to the clerk. As
a matter of tradition, Speakers rarely vote. At the moment Foley acted, the vote changed, and the bill was soon
passed.
Final Action
House and Senate conferees had little difficulty agreeing March 19 on a compromise bill joining the two versions of
S 419. That was due primarily to the fact that the Senate version had little language beyond that providing the
money, and the House version had been negotiated at the highest levels — by Foley, Michel and Brady.
Conferees met for about 15 minutes and agreed to marry the two versions of the bill almost intact. They made only
minor changes in Senate language — sought by the administration — to clear up concerns that RTC employees
might be subject to civil suits under securities law for actions taken in trying to sell off assets, particularly securities.
The RTC had a $6 billion junk bond portfolio and millions of dollars in mortgages. It planned to offer securities to
private investors that were backed by these junk bonds and mortgages in order to get a better price.
The Senate called up the bill later the same day and adopted the conference report by voice vote. Two days later,
on March 21, the House cleared the bill with a minimum of debate.
The House adopted the conference report by a vote of 225–188 — the biggest margin mustered in a series of
contentious votes over the previous two weeks. A majority of Democrats still opposed the measure, however. (Vote
56, p. 14–H)
Major Provisions
As cleared, the major provisions of S 419:
Additional financing. Provided the RTC with $30 billion from the Treasury to cover losses in failed thrifts.
Reporting requirements. Required the RTC to submit detailed, quarterly financing plans for the bailout. The first such
plan was due 30 days after enactment. The bill also required annual General Accounting Office audits of the RTC.
Those audits had to be sent to Congress within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
Management reforms. Directed the RTC to improve its information systems and management of conservatorships,
speed its sale of assets and otherwise address complaints about its efficiency and performance.
Employee immunity. Clarified that RTC officers and employees were not subject to civil securities-fraud suits resulting
from the sale of securities backed by mortgages, junk bonds or other assets. The provision did not expand protections
for government employees; they were still subject to a suit if there was criminal action.
Affordable housing. Expanded the scope of provisions in the original salvage bill involving sales of low-income housing
to individuals and public and nonprofit housing agencies. The program was extended to properties held by thrifts being
run by the RTC under conservatorship — not just houses and apartments that had been in the inventories of thrifts
closed by the RTC. And the bill removed a requirement that the RTC get a minimum sales price for the property, freeing
the RTC to sell for nominal amounts.
Minority contracting. Required the RTC to report twice a year on its efforts to contract with companies headed by
minorities or women.
Round 2: $25 Billion More
The effort to infuse the bailout with additional money in late 1991 was even more problematic.
Seidman, who as chairman of the FDIC also ran the RTC, told the Senate Banking Committee on June 21 that $80
billion would be needed to finish the job.
He also testified that the time had come to wean the RTC's salvage operation from the FDIC and give it a new
7/3/09 12:25 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110029&type=hitlist&num=7
He also testified that the time had come to wean the RTC's salvage operation from the FDIC and give it a new
board of directors and management team accountable to the administration and Congress. That recommendation
paralleled an increasingly strong view on Capitol Hill that the RTC's complex management scheme was too
unwieldy and contributed to the sense that the agency was out of control. (Seidman resignation, p. 77)
Treasury Secretary Brady and others in the administration who had previously objected to overhauling the RTC's
management reluctantly accepted that argument by year's end.
In part because the RTC issue was so fractious, and in part because the House and Senate Banking committees
were enmeshed in a difficult fight over how to overhaul the nation's banking laws, nothing happened for months.
(Banking overhaul, p. 75)
In fact, the Senate Banking Committee never acted on the second RTC bill of the year, and the Senate eventually
accepted a House-passed bill (HR 3435) without amendment. Final passage of HR 3435 was Congress' last act
before adjourning for the year. As cleared, the bill gave the RTC only a fraction of the money it wanted, and
imposed a long series of management changes on the agency. (Major provisions, p. 79)
House Financial Institutions Subcommittee
The House Banking Committee's work on Round 2 of the year's bailout battle picked up where Round 1 left off.
The Financial Institution's Subcommittee voted Oct 2 to force Congress and the president to pay for the balance of
the savings and loan bailout — at least $60 billion worth — through spending cuts and tax increases, not by
increasing the federal deficit through additional borrowing.
The subcommittee spent three days on the bailout financing bill (HR 3435), disposing of more than 50 amendments
concerning the financing and management of the bailout; real estate sales by the RTC, plus issues involving the
RTC's dealings with small businesses and those owned by women and minorities.
Just before finishing on Oct. 8, the subcommittee voted a second time in favor of financing the bailout with new
taxes or spending cuts, despite strong opposition from senior House Democrats and a united bloc of Republicans. A
last-minute GOP effort to strike the “pay as you go” provision failed on a near party-line 16–18 vote. The
subcommittee then approved the bill 20–16, with most Republicans in opposition.
The bill authorized $20 billion more for the RTC to cover losses in failed thrift institutions and required the president
and congressional leaders to come up with a plan to find another $60 billion without borrowing it. The plan was
crafted by Kennedy, who had unsuccessfully offered a somewhat different pay-as-you-go proposal to the RTC bill
earlier in the year.
In the eyes of the administration, most Republicans and some senior Democrats, the provision created at least two
problems: It could have postponed an infusion of new cash for the bailout, and it could have spurred a nasty
partisan debate over the source of the money.
Deputy Treasury Secretary John E. Robson called the subcommittee-approved bill “flawed and inadequate” and said
he would strongly recommend a veto if the measure cleared Congress in the subcommittee-approved current form.
Wylie cautioned: “I'm afraid that the Kennedy amendment would kill the bill.”
Although the financing language caused the most heartburn for the administration, it was not the only provision in
the subcommittee bill that drew fire.
The most far-reaching of these would have required the RTC to auction off real estate that it took over from failed
thrifts and held in its possession for an extended period. Members on both sides of the aisle complained repeatedly
about the RTC's asset sales practices, particularly about the agency's unwillingness or inability to unload land and
other property. Much of the RTC's asset inventory was financed with borrowed money. The sooner the assets were
unloaded, the less taxpayers had to pay to carry the debt. An amendment by Frank Annunzio, D-Ill. would have
required the RTC to auction any property held more than nine months. It was adopted on an 18–12 bipartisan vote.
The subcommittee also adopted by voice vote an amendment by Bruce F. Vento, D-Minn. that would have given
state and local governments and nonprofit conservation groups a right of first refusal to buy historically,
environmentally or scientifically sensitive property held by the RTC. By a 22–14, mostly party-line vote, the
subcommittee agreed to an amendment by Peter Hoagland, D-Neb. that would have required the RTC to maintain
such properties in the condition they were in when the agency took them over.
House Banking Committee
The full Banking Committee waited nearly two months before acting on HR 3435. In the midst of its difficulties on
the broader banking overhaul bill, the committee met Nov. 19–20 and narrowly approved the RTC measure.
By a 27–25 vote, with most junior Republicans and key senior Democrats opposed, the committee approved the bill,
after voting to alter the financing plan that had been approved in subcommittee. The revised bill would have given
the RTC $20 billion and required that any additional money for the agency come from spending cuts elsewhere in
the federal budget. Thus, the already controversial pay-as-you-go plan was changed to a “cut as you go” plan that
did not specifically allow for tax increases to finance the bailout.
7/3/09 12:25 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110029&type=hitlist&num=7
The committee spent two long days marking up the bill and disposed of more than 75 amendments, including two
comprehensive substitutes for the bill that contained alternative financing mechanisms.
As soon as the committee acted, it was clear than HR 3435 would not be enacted in that form. But just what might
happen remained in doubt until Congress was almost ready to adjourn. In the end, much of the Banking Committee
bill, including its financing plan, was discarded. Many of its management changes were kept in a revised form.
Other than the pay-as-you-go change, the bill approved by the Banking Committee differed little from the sub-
committee version. In addition to continuing to pay for the bailout, the bill would have restructured the RTC and its
Treasury-dominated Oversight Board. It would have created a new chief executive officer for the agency and
required that the CEO be appointed by the president and confirmed by the Senate. The FDIC would have been
stripped of its day-to-day RTC management responsibilities. And the RTC would have been given the task of closing
failed thrifts until Oct. 1, 1993, a year longer than envisioned in the 1989 bailout law that created the RTC.
The bill would have imposed new requirements on the RTC's hiring of lawyers and other outside contractors, capped
RTC employee salaries and permitted background checks of employees. It would have set conditions on seller
financing of RTC-owned real estate and revised a special low-income housing program created when the thrift
bailout began.
The full committee dropped a subcommittee-approved RTC hiring freeze and a requirement that the agency auction
off real estate held for more than six months.
House Floor, Final Action
With work on the bank overhaul bill done and adjournment only hours away, the House finally passed HR 3435 on
Nov. 27 — but it was not the version of the bill approved in committee.
The House passed the bill on a 112–63 division vote, a seldom-used procedure requiring members to stand and be
counted. GOP efforts to force a roll-call vote failed. And approval came only after conservative Republicans tried
unsuccessfully to get a rule allowing them to offer an “economic growth” tax-cut package as an amendment to the
RTC bill.
“I, for one, will not be voting for one more nickel to go down the RTC rat hole” until action is taken on the economic
stimulus plan, said Vin Weber, R-Minn. But other Republican leaders warned that the RTC bill was necessary to
help the thousands of middle-income taxpayers who have their savings in troubled thrifts. “This is not a pleasant
task, but we have, quite frankly, no alternative,” Michel said.
The House vote came on a proposal that had been crafted by Democratic and Republican leaders in consultation
with the Senate and the administration, once it was clear that the House Banking Committee version was
unacceptable.
The plan, put together by Wylie and Doug Barnard Jr., D-Ga. dropped some of the Banking Committee's
management provisions and revised others, and it provided for “such sums as may be necessary until April 1, 1992,
not to exceed $25 billion.” It also included language from a draft Senate bill on restructuring the RTC to consolidate
its two boards of directors into one and to appoint a chief executive officer who would also serve on the board. The
Barnard-Wylie substitute was adopted by voice vote before the House passed the bill.
The Senate, meanwhile, had taken no formal action on the bill. But after the House passed HR 3435, the Senate
cleared it for the president by a vote of 44–33. It was the last significant act the Senate took before adjourning.
(Vote 280, p. 36–S)
A last-minute flap over House changes in capital standards for certain real estate loans threatened to hold up the
bill in the Senate, but negotiations with the House and the administration led to an agreement to repeal that
provision retroactively in 1992.
Features
Boxscore
Savings and Loan Bailout Financing — Round 1 (S 419: HR 1103, HR 1221, HR 1315). The bill provided $30
billion to the Resolution Trust Corporation (RTC) to cover depositor losses in failed savings and loan associations,
and made minor management changes in the thrift bailout.
Reports: S Rept 102–13; H Rept 102–27.
KEY ACTION
Feb. 5 — S 419 approved by the Senate Banking Committee by voice vote.
Feb. 26 — HR 1103 considered by the House Banking Committee and rejected on a 19–31 vote.
March 7 — S 419 passed by the Senate by 69–30 vote. House Banking Committee approved two separate RTC
bills, HR 1221, HR 1315.
7/3/09 12:25 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110029&type=hitlist&num=7
March 12 — The House defeated HR 1315 and three alternatives, one of which was similar to HR 1221.
March 13 — The House called up S 419 and amended it with a substitute similar to one of the alternatives rejected
the day before. The House passed amended S 419 by a vote of 192–181.
March 19 — House-Senate conferees merged differing versions in quick session. The Senate adopted conference
report by voice vote.
March 21 — The House cleared S 419 for the president by a vote of 225–188.
March 23 — President Bush signed S 419 — PL 102–18.
Savings and Loan Bailout Financing — Round 2 (HR 3435). The bill provided such sums as needed by the
Resolution Trust Corporation to cover losses in failed thrifts through April 1, 1992, to a maximum of $25 billion. It
also overhauled the management structure of the RTC to eliminate its dual boards of directors and create a strong
chief executive officer, and made other management changes in the bailout.
Reports: H Rept 102–358, Parts I and II.
KEY ACTION
Nov. 20 — The House Banking Committee approved the bill by a vote of 27–25.
Nov. 27 — The House adopted a comprehensive substitute to the committee bill by voice vote, then passed it on a
112–63 standing vote; the Senate cleared it, 44–33.
Dec. 12 — President Bush signed HR 3435 — PL 102–233.
RTC Refinancing, Restructuring Provisions
As signed by President Bush on Dec. 12, 1991, the major provisions of HR 3435 — PL 102–233:
Bailout Financing
Depositor loss coverage. Provided “such sums” from the Treasury as needed by the Resolution Trust Corporation
(RTC) to cover depositor losses in failed thrifts that were liquidated, sold or otherwise closed.
This open-ended appropriation was capped at $25 billion and could be drawn upon only through April 1, 1992, although
money transferred to the RTC would not have to be used by that date.
The RTC previously had been granted $80 billion to cover thrift losses (about $49 billion from taxpayers and $31 billion
from the thrift industry). Almost all of that money was spent or earmarked for case resolutions by the time Congress
cleared HR 3435.
Working capital. Made no statutory change in the limit on RTC short-term borrowing. The agency borrowed so-called
working capital from the public through the Federal Financing Bank (an arm of the Treasury) to cover its cash needs.
Those loans were repaid from the sale of assets taken onto the RTC's books from failed thrifts.
A complex formula in existing law limited working capital borrowing in large part to 85 percent of the value of assets held
by the RTC. In 1991, the RTC had determined the cap to be $125 billion; the administration sought a statutory increase
to $160 billion.
Under the formula, the increase in loss money provided in the law could be used to increase the working capital
borrowing cap, but the RTC had no plans to do so, calculating that the existing $125 billion cap would not hinder the
agency's operations before April 1, 1992.
Extension of RTC life. Required the RTC to resolve thrifts that failed before Oct. 1, 1993. Previously, the RTC was
responsible only for thrifts that failed before Aug. 9, 1992. Those that failed after Oct. 1, 1993, would be the obligation
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), unless the RTC previously had been appointed as conservator to
manage a weakened institution. Thrifts that were under RTC control and failed after Oct. 1, 1993, would be resolved by
the RTC.
The law did not change the Dec. 31, 1996, termination date for the RTC, after which the agency's assets and liabilities
were to be transferred to the FSLIC Resolution Fund. That fund was administered by the FDIC to manage the assets
and liabilities of thrifts that had failed before the RTC was established and were being managed by the now-defunct
Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation (FSLIC).
Use of proceeds. Clarified that after the RTC is terminated on Dec. 31, 1996, proceeds from the sale of assets are first
to be used to pay off working capital debt, before being diverted to pay off the $30 billion borrowed by the thrift industry
through the Resolution Funding Corporation during the first year of the bailout.
Reports. Required the RTC to report quarterly on details of assets held by and disposed of by the RTC, including:
specifics on their book and market value, the amount of the RTC's net recovery from asset sales, specifics about
auctions of RTC-held assets, details of working capital loans taken from the Treasury and repaid, updates of the annual
budgets for the RTC and its oversight board, plans to phase down the agency's operations after the first quarter of 1994,
and details about the number and duties of employees and others hired by the RTC and its oversight board.
The law also required a semiannual, unaudited financial statement in addition to the annual audited financial statement
7/3/09 12:25 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 9 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110029&type=hitlist&num=7
The law also required a semiannual, unaudited financial statement in addition to the annual audited financial statement
due after the end of each fiscal year.
The requirement for detailed reporting followed complaints from some lawmakers that it was difficult to obtain timely and
complete information about RTC financing and activities.
Management Restructuring
Chief executive. Created the position of chief executive officer to manage the RTC and removed the FDIC as exclusive
manager of the agency. The chief executive was to be appointed by the president and confirmed by the Senate. The
RTC oversight board previously had created a chief executive position, appointed by the RTC's operating board of
directors (which was the same as the FDIC board of directors).
Operating board of directors. Repealed existing law designating the FDIC board of directors as the RTC's operating
board, leaving daily management in the hands of the newly created chief executive and further insulating the RTC from
the FDIC. This and related changes were made effective Feb. 1, 1992.
Oversight board. Expanded the RTC oversight board from five to seven members, adding the RTC chief executive, the
director of the Office of Thrift Supervision, and the chairman of the FDIC to its membership and removing the secretary
of Housing and Urban Development.
The board was also renamed the Thrift Depositor Protection Oversight Board. The Treasury secretary remained as
chairman of the oversight board, and the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors and two private citizen
members remained on the board.
Limits on oversight board authority. Restricted the oversight board's authority by removing its ability to set policies for
the RTC. That authority was given to the RTC chief executive. The board was left with the responsibility of reviewing
overall strategies, policies and goals.
The law also eliminated previous statutory requirements that the oversight board be accountable for the RTC's
operations; its role instead was to monitor the agency's operations.
National Housing Advisory Board. Created a board, chaired by the secretary of Housing and Urban Development, to
advise the oversight board on issues related to the availability of affordable housing.
This board, required to meet at least four times a year, complemented a previously created national board to advise the
oversight board on issues related to the sale of real estate.
Minorities, Women and Small Businesses
Preferences in contracting. Required the RTC to give companies owned by blacks, Hispanics, Native Americans,
Asians and women additional points for technical merit and cost preference when reviewing bids for contracts with the
agency.
Joint ventures, in which businesses owned by minorities or women had at least a 25 percent share, were made eligible
for contract preferences.
Rent-free leasing of branch offices. Permitted the RTC to lease branch offices of failed or failing thrifts in minority
neighborhoods rent-free to banks or thrifts owned by blacks, Hispanics, Native Americans, Asians and women. If the
RTC chose to lease branches under these terms, the rent-free period could not be less than five years; the leasing
institution would be responsible solely for insurance, taxes and utilities; and the lease could include an option to buy.
In addition, a bank or thrift that sold a branch office in a minority neighborhood on favorable terms to an institution
owned by minorities or women, or leased a branch on a rent-free basis, would receive credit for any loss connected with
the transaction toward meeting its community lending obligations under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977.
Acquisitions by minority-owned institutions. Permitted and in some cases required the RTC to grant assistance to
minority investors, including minority-owned banks and thrifts, who were seeking to buy a failed or failing thrift that was
not minority-owned. An existing program, devised by the RTC, that granted low-interest financing to minority acquirers
of a non-minority thrift was made part of the law.
The RTC would have to provide such assistance if a minority-owned acquirer submitted a bid asking for assistance and
no other acceptable bid to buy the failed or failing thrift had been received. Such financing would have to be granted
with a minimum two-year payback rate, and the interest rate charged could not exceed the average cost of borrowing for
the RTC at the time of the loan.
In addition, the RTC was allowed to grant other assistance, including the transfer of assets from other thrifts under the
RTC's control that were not part of the purchase proposal.
Small businesses. Required the RTC to set an annual goal for contracting with small businesses, including those
owned by socially or economically disadvantaged people
Affordable Housing
Credit enhancement. Granted the RTC broad authority to make loans, share in the risk and provide other credit
enhancements for the purpose of selling housing units for low- and moderate-income people. The RTC was permitted to
extend credit enhancements for tax-exempt bonds that were sold by nonprofit organizations in order to buy low- and
moderate-income housing.
7/3/09 12:25 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 10 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal91-1110029&type=hitlist&num=7
Property eligible for preferential treatment. Broadened an existing RTC affordable housing program (created by the
original thrift bailout law — PL 101–73) to include single-family and multifamily housing held by thrifts that were open
and operating under an RTC conservatorship. The program made certain property available on a right-of-first-refusal
basis to eligible low- and moderate-income people, and state and local housing authorities.
Previously, only property seized by the RTC from failed thrifts was eligible; the law extended the program to property
held by thrifts still in business. Because this change was expected to result in a greater loss to the RTC, the provision
regarding multifamily housing was only allowed to take effect to the extent that Congress appropriated money to cover
the cost.
Time limit for sale. Extended from 90 days (under previous law) to 180 days the right-of-first-refusal period during
which single-family residences would be marketed under the affordable housing program. The period for housing
agencies to submit qualified bids for multifamily housing was also extended.
Veterans preference. Clarified that households with members who are veterans were eligible to purchase single-family
residences under the affordable housing program.
Anti-speculation requirements. Required purchasers of low- and moderate-income housing to certify their intent to
occupy the property as a principal residence for one year after the purchase. As a further deterrent to speculation in
RTC-held affordable housing, the RTC was required to recapture 75 percent of the profits from the resale of a unit within
the first year.
Protection for tenants. Permitted the RTC to sell single-family residences that fell within the affordable housing
program to existing tenants who did not meet income criteria, provided that doing so would prevent unnecessary
displacement of those tenants and that they agreed to occupy the residence for one year.
Sales price. Removed a previous law requirement that the RTC sell single-family properties at the minimum sales price
set by the agency, unless a lower price was deemed necessary to expedite the sale. The change would permit below-
minimum sales at any time.
Miscellaneous
Appraisal standards. Deferred from July 1, 1991, to Dec. 31, 1992, the effective date for mandatory state standards for
licensed real estate appraisers. This provision was also included in the big banking bill (S 543) that Congress cleared
before adjourning.
Capital leniency for housing loans. Required that mortgage loans for the purchase of single-family and multifamily
housing be weighted at 50 percent of their value for computation of minimum capital-to-asset ratios for banks and
thrifts. The effect was to cut in half the amount of capital required as a cushion for such loans. Immediately after
clearing HR 3435, the Senate passed a second bill (S 2131) to repeal the section on capital leniency.
The House did not act on S 2131, but during Senate floor debate, it was asserted that the House would agree to repeal
the provision and that the administration would not put it into effect until  the House had an opportunity to act.
Document Citation
"Thrift Bailout Fund Replenished Twice." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal91-1110029. Originally
published in CQ Almanac 1991 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1992). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal91-
1110029 (accessed July 3, 2009).
Document ID: cqal91-1110029
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal91-1110029
© 1992, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
