7/9/09 4:04 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 5http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal02-236-10364-664075&type=hitlist&num=16
Corporate Fraud
2002 Provisions of the Corporate Fraud
Bill
2002 New Rules for Corporations
1994 Clinton Signs Bill To Curb
Telemarketing Fraud
1988 Government Contract Fraud
1986 Congress Puts More Teeth in
Anti-Fraud Law
Whistleblower Protection
Provisions of the Corporate Fraud Bill
An article from CQ Almanac 2002
Document Outline
Oversight Board
Accounting Standards
Auditor Independence
Corporate Responsibility
Disclosure and Transparency Requirements
Securities Analysts
SEC Resources and Authority
Studies and Reports
Corporate Fraud
White-Collar Crime
Corporate Tax Returns
Corporate Fraud Accountability
The following are provisions of the new law overhauling regulation of the accounting industry and increasing
corporate accountability. The measure was signed into law July 30 (HR 3763 — PL 107 – 204).
Oversight Board
Board. The law created a new, independent regulatory body, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, to
oversee the auditing of publicly traded companies in order to protect the interests of investors. The board, which is
classified as a District of Columbia-based nonprofit corporation, operates under Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC) oversight. All the board's rules, decisions and sanctions must be submitted to the SEC for approval. The SEC can
censure or limit the board's activities, operations and members for cause.
Membership. The board is composed of five full-time members appointed by the SEC in consultation with the Federal
Reserve chairman and the Treasury secretary. No more than two of the board members may have worked previously as
certified public accountants. Board members serve for five years with staggered terms. They must serve full time, and
are not to be employed in any other business or professional activity during their terms. Board members are limited to
two terms.
Registration and inspection. Accounting firms that audit publicly traded companies are required to register with the
oversight board. The board must conduct annual inspections of accounting firms that regularly audit more than 100
publicly traded companies, and inspect other accounting firms at least once every three years. Foreign public
accounting firms that audit companies whose shares trade on U.S. exchanges are subject to the new law.
Powers. The board has the authority to establish and enforce auditing standards, and to investigate and discipline
accountants or accounting firms that violate those standards. It is empowered to require registered accounting firms to
provide documents and testimony in the course of an investigation. It also can ask other companies and individuals to
provide documents and testimony, as well as request the SEC issue subpoenas.
Penalties. The board can suspend or bar individuals from being associated with registered accounting firms, and
suspend or revoke accounting firms' registration. It can levy civil money penalties of not more than $100,000 for an
individual or $2 million for a corporation. Intentional, knowing or reckless conduct is punishable by a penalty of up to
$750,000 for an individual and $15 million for a corporation.
Funding. To ensure its independence, the board is funded through annual accounting fees assessed on publicly traded
companies, with each company's assessment determined by its average annual market capitalization (the company's
share price multiplied by the number of shares issued).
Auditing standards. The board is required to establish or adopt standards for audits of public companies. The
standards must require registered accounting firms to prepare and maintain audit work papers for seven years, including
an evaluation of the internal financial controls of their public company clients.
Accounting Standards
 
7/9/09 4:04 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 5http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal02-236-10364-664075&type=hitlist&num=16
Funding. To ensure its independence, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), which sets national
accounting standards, must be funded by fees assessed on publicly traded companies.
Membership. A majority of FASB's board must be composed of individuals who have not been affiliated with
accounting firms during their service or in the two years prior to their service.
Accounting system. FASB is directed to conduct a study on the possible use of a “principles-based” accounting
system, in which accounting guidelines are loosely drawn and based on principle, rather than the existing “rules-based”
accounting system, which relies on specifically enumerated rules.
Auditor Independence
Audit committees. Auditors must be hired by, and report to, a company's audit committee (or if there is no audit
committee, the company's entire board of directors). The audit committee is to set compensation levels for outside
accountants and be able to seek outside advice at company expense. Accounting firms must report to audit committees
regarding accounting policies and procedures, alternative treatments of financial information that the auditors have
discussed with company management, if any, and material written communications between the auditors and company
man-agement. Audit committees must set up a procedure for receiving complaints regarding the company's accounting
and auditing, as well as confidential, anonymous information provided by company employees.
Each member of a corporation's audit committee must be “independent” — not part of the company's management and
not receiving any compensation from the company for consulting or other services. The SEC can make exceptions.
Accounting firms are prohibited from auditing a corporation if the chief executive officer (CEO), chief financial officer
(CFO), controller, chief accounting officer, or any person serving in an equivalent position previously worked for the
accounting firm and participated in the company audit during the previous year.
Non-audit services. Auditors are barred from providing specified non-audit services to the same publicly traded
companies they audit. Barred services include: bookkeeping or other services related to accounting records or financial
statements; financial information systems design and implementation; appraisal or valuation services; actuarial services;
internal audits; management or human resources; broker/dealer, investment adviser or investment banking services;
legal and expert services; or other services the board decides are not permitted. The board can grant case-by-case
exceptions to the banned services.
Accounting firms can provide certain other non-audit services, including tax services, to a corporation, if approved in
advance by the audit committee. Prior approval by the audit committee, or a designated subset of the audit committee, is
not required if combined compensation for all such non-audit services is 5 percent or less of the total compensation paid
by the corporation to the auditor during the fiscal year, or if such services were not recognized as non-audit services by
the client at the time of engagement, or if such services are promptly brought to the audit committee's attention and
approved by either the audit committee or one or more of its members before the completion of the audit.
Auditor rotation. Accounting firms must periodically rotate their lead audit partners, and the review partners, so that no
one partner either leads an audit for a specific public company or reviews it for more than five years in a row.
GAO study. The Comptroller General is directed to study the possible impact of requiring mandatory rotation of entire
accounting firms on audits of publicly traded companies.
Corporate Responsibility
Executive responsibility. Corporate CEOs and CFOs and those persons performing similar functions at publicly
traded companies — including U.S. companies that establish a shell headquarters abroad — are required to certify the
accuracy of annual and quarterly company financial reports to the SEC. The executives must attest that they have
reviewed the report and, based on their knowledge, vouch that it does not contain any untruths or misstatements of any
significant facts and that they represent an accurate description of the company's financial condition in all material
respects. They also must verify that they have established, and are maintaining and periodically evaluating, internal
controls so that they can become aware of any material changes in the company's financial condition.
Improper influence on audits. Company officers and directors are forbidden from, directly or indirectly, fraudulently
influencing, coercing, manipulating or misleading the company's outside auditors.
CEO and CFO forfeitures. If a company is later forced to restate its earnings because of material non-compliance or
misconduct regarding financial reporting requirements, the CEO and CFO will be required to repay the company any
bonuses or compensation based on incentives or stock, as well as any profits they earned from sales of company stock
during the 12 months following the initial financial statement. The SEC can make exceptions.
Officer and director bars. The SEC can ask a federal court to bar persons from serving as officers or directors of
publicly traded companies if the person's conduct demonstrates “unfitness.” The previous standard was “substantial
unfitness.”
Stock trading restrictions. The new law prohibits corporate directors or executive officers from buying, selling or
transferring company stock during “blackout” periods of at least three consecutive business days when at least 50
percent of all participants and beneficiaries in the company-sponsored pension or 401(k) plan are barred from doing so.
If an executive illegally conducts a stock transaction during blackout periods, the company may go to court to recover
7/9/09 4:04 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 5http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal02-236-10364-664075&type=hitlist&num=16
If an executive illegally conducts a stock transaction during blackout periods, the company may go to court to recover
any profits made from the transaction, subject to a two-year statute of limitations. Shareholders can also go to court,
after waiting 60 days for the company to take action.
Applicable blackout periods do not include regularly scheduled blackout periods that are part of the plan and disclosed
to employees, or those that are imposed when participants or beneficiaries either begin or cease to be part of the plan
as a result of a merger, acquisition, divestiture or similar transaction that involves either the retirement plan or the plan
sponsor.
Plan administrators are generally required to notify participants and beneficiaries 30 days in advance of any blackout
period — including the reasons for the blackout and when it is expected to begin and end — and issue a statement
advising the participants or beneficiaries to review their individual investment decisions in light of the blackout period.
The secretary of Labor may fine plan administrators up to $100 per day per participant or beneficiary for failing or
refusing to provide required notices.
Attorney responsibility. Within 180 days of enactment, the SEC must issue rules requiring attorneys who appear and
practice before the commission on behalf of publicly traded companies to report material securities law violations,
breaches of fiduciary duty or similar violations to the company's chief legal counsel or its CEO. If those officers do not
appropriately respond to the report, the attorney is required to inform either the company's audit committee, another
committee of independent directors or the entire board of directors.
Fund for defrauded investors. Money collected through court-ordered disgorgements (refunds of money by
defendants because of securities law violations), settlements involving disgorgements, or civil penalties must, at the
SEC's discretion, be put into a fund to be paid to victims of the particular violation. The SEC also can accept gifts and
bequests made to the United States for the fund.
The SEC is required to study its own enforcement actions during the previous five years to identify ways to effectively
pay restitution to defrauded investors, and report to the House Financial Services and Senate Banking committees
within 180 days.
Disclosure and Transparency Requirements
Off-balance-sheet disclosures. Corporations must include in their annual and quarterly financial reports to the SEC
any information on off-balance-sheet transactions or partnerships that may have an effect on the company's financial
condition. A company's “pro forma” financial statements, such as preliminary reports or releases issued in advance of
quarterly and annual SEC reports, may not contain any untrue material statements or omit material information that
makes the statement misleading, and must depict the financial conditions and operations of the company under
generally accepted accounting principles.
Special-purpose entities. The SEC will study filings by publicly traded companies to determine the extent to which off-
balance-sheet transactions and special-purpose entities (complex business arrangements that can be used to transfer
and hide debt) are used, and whether generally accepted accounting rules provide for transparent disclosure to
investors. The SEC is required to report to the president, the Senate Banking and the House Financial Services
committees as to the number of off-balance-sheet transactions employed by publicly traded companies, the extent to
which special-purpose entities are used as part of such transactions, whether generally accepted accounting principles
or SEC rules provide for transparent disclosure of off-balance-sheet transactions, and issue SEC recommendations for
improving the reporting of off-balance-sheet transactions.
Conflicts of interest. Publicly traded companies are barred from making loans to directors or officers. Exceptions
include home improvement and manufactured home loans; consumer credit; charge cards; and margin accounts for
employees of securities brokers and dealers, so long as they are provided in the ordinary course of the company's
consumer credit business and made available to the public on terms that are at least as favorable.
The prohibition also does not apply to loans made or maintained by insured depository institutions if the loans are
subject to prior restrictions on insider lending.
Directors, officers, and owners of more than 10 percent of stock in a publicly traded company must file statements with
the SEC indicating the amount of stock held and any changes in ownership before the end of the second business day
that follows the day the relevant transaction occurred.
Internal controls. Annual company reports to the SEC must contain statements of management responsibility for
establishing and maintaining internal controls and financial reporting procedures, along with an assessment of their
effectiveness. The company's outside accounting firm also must evaluate those statements and assessments.
Codes of ethics. Public companies are required to report to the SEC regarding whether or not they have codes of
ethics for their senior financial officers. Companies also must immediately disclose any changes to or waivers of their
codes of ethics.
Audit committee financial experts. Public companies must report to the SEC as to whether at least one member of
the audit committee is a “financial expert,” defined as someone who understands generally accepted accounting
principles, including for estimates, accruals and reserves; has experience in preparing or auditing financial statements at
similar companies; and has experience with internal accounting controls as well as an understanding of the role of audit
committees.
Enhanced SEC review. The SEC is required to review public company filings at least once every three years, paying
particular attention to companies that have restated their financial results, have especially volatile stock prices, have the
largest market capitalizations and “significantly affect” particular economic sectors.
7/9/09 4:04 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 5http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal02-236-10364-664075&type=hitlist&num=16
Real-time disclosures. Publicly traded companies must plainly and publicly disclose “on a rapid and current basis” any
material changes in their operations or financial conditions.
Securities Analysts
Conflicts of interest. The SEC, or registered securities associations or national securities exchanges that the SEC
designates, must adopt rules to prevent conflicts of interest by stock analysts.
The rules must limit the ability of investment bankers who underwrite stocks to supervise or affect the compensation of
stock analysts who work for the same firm; restrict advance approval of analyst reports by investment bankers; prevent
investment bankers from retaliating against affiliated stock analysts who issue unfavorable recommendations against
stocks; and create structural and informational firewalls to separate the investment and research divisions of investment
banks.
The rules must define periods surrounding initial public offerings of stock during which involved brokers and dealers
should not publish or distribute research reports on the stock of the issuing company.
They also must require a stock analyst, in preparing research reports and when making public appearances, to disclose
the extent to which he owns the stock being discussed; whether the analyst or his employer has received any income
from the company whose stock is being discussed; whether his employer has had any business dealings in the past year
with the company; and whether the analyst's compensation was tied to investment banking revenues collected by his
employer.
SEC Resources and Authority
Fiscal 2003 authorization. The law authorizes $776 million for the SEC for fiscal 2003, $317.4 million more than the
agency's fiscal 2002 appropriation. Of that amount, $102.7 million is designated for commission salaries and benefits,
$108.4 million for information technology, security, and recovery from the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, and $98 million for
hiring not fewer than 200 additional staff members.
Additional SEC authority. The SEC can censure or bar from appearing or practicing before the commission any person
whom it finds to be lacking in qualifications or integrity, or to have engaged in improper or unethical conduct.
Penny stock bars. Courts have the authority to bar persons found to have engaged in misconduct from any offering of
penny stocks, which are high-risk stocks that typically sell for less than one dollar per share. The SEC can grant
exceptions.
Studies and Reports
Accounting firm consolidation. The law directs the Comptroller General to study the consolidation of public
accounting firms since 1989, along with the impact on stock markets and capital formation and any problems faced by
businesses because of “limited competition” among public accounting firms. The findings, as well recommendations on
increasing competition, are to be submitted to the Senate Banking and House Financial Services committees.
SEC reports. The SEC is required to submit studies to the Senate Banking and House Financial Services committees
concerning: the role and function of credit rating agencies; securities law violations by accountants, investment bankers,
brokers, attorneys and others between Jan. 1, 1998, and Dec. 31, 2001; and the SEC's own enforcement actions during
the past five years involving reporting violations and financial restatements, along with an analysis of which reporting
requirements are most susceptible to fraud.
Investment banking. The Comptroller General is required to report to Congress on whether investment banks and
financial advisers had a hand in concealing the true financial condition of publicly traded companies, especially Enron
Corp. and Global Crossing Ltd., with recommended regulatory or legislative steps to address concerns.
Corporate Fraud
Document falsification and shredding. Knowingly altering, falsifying or destroying records, documents or tangible
objects with the intent to obstruct justice is punishable by a fine and/or up to 20 years in prison.
Audit records. Accountants must keep audit and review records for five years after the end of the fiscal period during
which the audit or review occurred. The SEC is required to establish rules within 180 days. Violation of the five-year
retention requirement is punishable by a fine and/or up to 10 years in prison.
Debts in bankruptcy. Federal bankruptcy law is amended so that debts resulting from judgments, orders or settlements
incurred because of securities law violations or common law fraud are non-dischargeable in bankruptcy proceedings.
Statute of limitations. In a provision backed by plaintiff lawyers, the statute of limitations for civil lawsuits related to
securities fraud is expanded to up to two years after discovery of the fraud or five years after the fraud occurred.
Previously, the limit was one year after discovery of the fraud or three years after the fraud occurred.
7/9/09 4:04 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 5http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal02-236-10364-664075&type=hitlist&num=16
Whistleblower protections. Publicly traded companies and their agents are prohibited from retaliating against
whistleblowers who provide information or otherwise assist in an investigation being conducted by the company, federal
regulators or law enforcement, or members of Congress or congressional committees. Whistleblowers who claim they
have been retaliated against have 90 days to file a complaint to the secretary of Labor. If there is no final decision in the
dispute within 180 days, the whistleblower can seek redress in federal court.
Securities fraud felony. A “scheme or artifice” to defraud shareholders or to obtain money or property in connection
with securities fraud is punishable by a fine and/or up to 25 years in prison.
White-Collar Crime
Mail and wire fraud. Criminal penalties for mail and wire fraud are increased to a maximum of 20 years in prison, up
from five.
Pension law violations. Violations of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (PL 93–406 ) are
punishable by a fine of up to $100,000 and/or 10 years in prison; the old penalty was a fine of up to $5,000 and one
year in prison. Corporations are subject to a fine of up to $500,000; the old penalty was a fine of up to $100,000.
Review by U.S. Sentencing Commission. The U.S. Sentencing Commission has 180 days to review — and amend,
as appropriate — federal sentencing guidelines related to securities fraud.
Certification of financial reports. CEOs and CFOs must certify that SEC filings fully comply with legal requirements
and that they fairly describe, in all material respects, the company's operations and financial condition. Knowing
violations are punishable by a fine of up to $1 million and 10 years in prison. Willful violations are punishable by a fine
of up to $5 million and 20 years in prison.
Attempt and conspiracy. Attempting or conspiring to commit offenses under the chapter are crimes that carry
punishments equal to those for committing the crime itself.
Corporate Tax Returns
Sense of the Senate. The sense of the Senate is that CEOs should sign corporate federal income tax returns.
Corporate Fraud Accountability
Record tampering. Destroying or tampering with records, documents or other objects, or attempting to do so, to
obstruct or impede official proceedings is subject to a fine and/or up to 20 years in prison.
Temporary freeze authority. The SEC can petition a federal court to order that extraordinary payments by a public
company under investigation to its officers, directors, employees or other persons be held in escrow for up to 90 days.
Officer and director bars. The SEC is empowered to prohibit persons, either temporarily or permanently, from serving
as officers or directors of publicly traded companies upon a finding that they are unfit to do so.
Increased criminal penalties. Violations of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 are punishable by a fine of up to
$5 million and/or 20 years in prison; the old penalties were a $1 million fine and/or 10 years in prison. Corporations are
subject to a fine of up to $25 million; the old penalty was a fine of up to $2.5 million.
Whistleblower protections. Anyone who knowingly retaliates against a person who provides truthful information to a
law enforcement officer shall be fined and/or imprisoned for up to 10 years.
Document Citation
"Provisions of the Corporate Fraud Bill." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal02-236-10364-664075.
Originally published in CQ Almanac 2002 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 2003).
http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal02-236-10364-664075 (accessed July 9, 2009).
Document ID: cqal02-236-10364-664075
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal02-236-10364-664075
© 2003, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
