7/9/09 3:43 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal98-0000191040&type=hitlist&num=6
Banking
1998 Congress Clears Legislation
Allowing Credit Unions To Expand
Membership
1995 House Shelves Banking Overhaul
1994 Other Banking Legislation
Considered in 1994
1994 Community Development Banking
Provisions
1994 Banking Law Undergoes Revision
1991 Congress Clears Slimmed-Down
Banking Bill
1991 Banking Nominations
1988 Caught in Turf Battle, Bank
Powers Bill Dies
1986 Major Banking Legislation Stalls
in Last Hours
1985 Banking Bills Fail to Reach House
Floor
1979 Banking Deregulation
1978 Electronic Banking Services
1978 Banking Regulation
1976 Banking Changes Blocked
1975 Senate Approves Broader Banking
Powers
1974 Citicorp Notes
1974 Banking Insurance, Credit Bill
Cleared
1970 Regulation Extended to One-
Bank Holding Companies
1969 Bank Holding Companies
1967 Truth-In-Lending Bill Passed by
Senate
1966 Bank Supervision
1966 Bank Holding Company Act
Exemptions Changed
1965 Bank Investigation
1957 Banking Revision
1955 Bank Companies
Antitrust
Federal Reserve
Savings and Loan Industry
Stock Market and Financial Services
Congress Clears Legislation Allowing Credit
Unions To Expand Membership
An article from CQ Almanac 1998
Document Outline
House Responds To Ruling By Supreme Court
Bill Cut Loose From Financial Services Overhaul
Credit Union Bill Survives Scuffles In Senate Banking
Senate Passes Bill; Differences With House Remain
House Accepts Senate Changes
President Clinton on Aug. 7 signed into law a bill to allow credit unions to
continue expanding their membership bases, ending a debate that pitted the
banking industry against the nation's credit unions.
The bill cleared after the House agreed to the Senate's removal of a provision
that in effect would have made credit unions subject to the 1977 Community
Reinvestment Act (PL 95-128), which governs neighborhood lending by
banks.
The reinvestment act requires federal regulators, when considering a bank's
application for a merger, new branch or other activity, to take into account the
bank's lending record in low-income and minority neighborhoods.
Action on the credit union bill was spurred by a Feb. 25 Supreme Court ruling
that said credit unions had overstepped their legal bounds by accepting
members and groups that did not have a “common bond,” such as a shared
occupation, with the credit union's chartering organization.
Credit unions organized a grassroots campaign to persuade Congress to
overturn the ruling, warning that it would force 20 million people out of credit
unions. As enacted, HR 1151 allows credit unions to continue accepting
members from an unrelated group, as long as the number of potential
members is fewer than 3,000.
The banking industry fought the bill vigorously, insisting it would not try to
force credit unions to expel existing members, but arguing that continued
expansion was unfair. Credit unions enjoy a nonprofit and tax-exempt status
that banking lobbyists say gives them an edge when it comes to interest rates
on loans and savings accounts. The banks' arguments essentially fell on deaf
ears.
But in an effort to appease the banks somewhat, the House Banking
Committee attached requirements for credit unions similar to the reinvestment
mandates on banks.
During Senate floor action, Richard C. Shelby, R-Ala., tried to amend HR 1151
to lift the reinvestment requirement on banks with less than $250 million in
assets. That drew a veto threat, and the Senate tabled the amendment. However, Phil Gramm, R-Texas, a
vehement opponent of the 1977 law, prevailed on an amendment deleting the provision requiring credit unions to
meet the community lending standards.
House Responds To Ruling By Supreme Court
March 28 A much-anticipated fix for credit unions whose expansion was jeopardized by a recent Supreme Court
ruling won voice vote approval March 26 from the House Banking and Financial Services Committee, after nearly
seven hours of debate and a close vote on a deal-breaking amendment on commercial lending.
Tense moments at the markup notwithstanding, committee Chairman Jim Leach, R-Iowa, said the House may take
 
7/9/09 3:43 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal98-0000191040&type=hitlist&num=6
Bill HR 1151— PL 105 - 219
House action The House cleared
HR 1151 by voice vote Aug. 4.
Senate action The Senate passed
the bill,  92-6, on July 28.
Presidential action Clinton signed
the bill Aug. 7.
up the bill (HR 1151) the week of March 30. Alternatively, the bill may be attached to a broader but more
controversial financial services overhaul plan (HR 10) that GOP leaders may bring to the floor March 31 or April 1.
Credit union supporters generally want the bill moved separately, because they fear HR 10 may stall.
At a March 26 Senate hearing on credit unions, Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee Chairman Alfonse M.
D'Amato, R-N.Y., who has said he will push HR 10 only if it gets a broad, bipartisan vote in the House, showed
more enthusiasm for a credit union measure.
D'Amato, who has scheduled another hearing April 2, predicted that
Congress “will see to it that the situation that exists today is
remedied.” He said he did not “believe there's an issue that's been
as important or needs the action of Congress as expeditiously” as
the Supreme Court's Feb. 25 decision on credit unions.
The court ruled that credit unions and their federal overseer, the
National Credit Union Administration, had overstepped legal bounds in
seeking new members from groups that did not have a common
occupational, employer or geographic bond with the credit union's
chartering group. The ruling would affect about 20 million of 70
million credit union members. The nation has 11,500 credit unions.
Committee Action
The measure considered by the House Banking Committee was the
product of negotiations between top panel members and credit
union officials. Banks, which had contributed suggestions earlier, were not involved.
The bill that emerged offered credit unions less than the original HR 1151, which would have reversed the Supreme
Court's ruling outright. But it gave much more than banks had been willing to give credit unions in a measure they
proffered. The bill would:
Allow the 20 million credit union members jeopardized by the court ruling to retain their membership.
Allow credit unions to accept members from an unrelated group, as long as the number of potential members from that
group did not exceed 3,000. Groups that joined would also have to be located within “reasonable proximity” of the credit
union.
Require the credit union administration to more specifically define who could join a credit union because of being in a
current member's “ immediate family or household” or living in a certain geographic area.
Extend for one year current regulations that allow credit unions to make commercial loans, as long as the loans to any
one member or group of members did not exceed $75,000, or 15 percent of a credit union's reserves.
Require credit unions to serve members of “modest means” and require the credit union administration to set up criteria
for periodically reviewing credit unions' lending records to ensure compliance with the provision. It is similar to
requirements of the 1977 Community Reinvestment Act, which applies to banks.
Require the credit union administration to promulgate regulations that would apply capital requirements to credit unions
to ensure “safety and soundness.” Such requirements, which deal with such items as reserves and collateral, now apply
to banks.
Allow the credit union administration to increase the funds that credit unions must pay into the National Credit Union
Share Insurance Fund, a federal fund that insures deposits.
Require the Federal Reserve to pay interest at least quarterly on the socalled sterile reserves that banks are required to
keep.
The bill's three major provisions — on commercial lending, community reinvestment requirements and the scope of
membership — prompted the most debate.
Banks vs. Credit Unions
Arguments over the major provisions mirrored differences between what credit unions and banks wanted.
Banks opposed the measure, saying it would benefit nonprofit credit unions at the expense of tax-paying banks.
They were inconspicuous at the markup, however, largely because the committee was widely expected to approve
the bill. Credit unions brought dozens of members who paced the committee room and wore buttons calling for
“consumer choice.” They also launched advertising and grass-roots campaigns that reached congressional offices.
The most contentious amendment, by Richard H. Baker, R-La., would have capped the amount of commercial loans
a credit union could make at 5 percent of its total assets. It also would have prevented a credit union member or an
7/9/09 3:43 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal98-0000191040&type=hitlist&num=6
a credit union could make at 5 percent of its total assets. It also would have prevented a credit union member or an
associated group of members from having more than $1 million in outstanding loans from the credit union at one
time.
Baker acknowledged that less than 1 percent of credit unions' business nationwide was in commercial loans, but
said he feared that without limits, some credit unions might become entangled in financial troubles reminiscent of
the problems savings and loans faced in the 1980s. “While activities are sound, the economy is good, let's prescribe
reasonable limits,” he said, adding that there is a “very small number” of credit unions “very large in size, who are
potentially creating a problem.”
But several members charged that Baker's amendment would jeopardize a subset of credit unions organized to
provide members of certain credit-poor occupations, such as farmers, truckers and cab drivers, with loans to
maintain their businesses. Bruce F. Vento, D-Minn., said about 200 credit unions would be adversely affected.
Paul E. Kanjorski, D-Pa., a sponsor of the original version of HR 1151, called Baker's amendment “a solution without
a problem.”
In response, the committee agreed by voice vote to a secondary amendment by Marge Roukema, R-N.J., to allow
the credit union administration to exempt credit unions from the 5 percent cap if it determined the cap would cause
“significant and continuing harm to the achievement of the credit union's purposes.”
But even with Roukema's amendment, Kanjorski said, “the agreement that was made on this bill no longer will
stand in place.”
Credit Union National Association President and former Rep. Daniel A. Mica, D-Fla. (1979-89), confirmed Kanjorski's
statement during a break before the panel voted on Baker's amendment. Mica said he would “pull the plug” on the
bill if the amendment was accepted. Without the support of credit unions — and the 200 House members who
signed onto the original version of HR 1151 — the bill would have died.
When the panel returned, Leach and committee ranking Democrat John J. LaFalce of New York offered a substitute
amendment to freeze current credit union administration commercial lending regulations for one year, while the
agency puts together a report to Congress on what lending limits should be put in place.
The committee voted 27-25 for the Leach-LaFalce plan over the Baker-Roukema plan.
The panel then moved to a controversial amendment by Bill  McCollum, R-Fla., to strike the fair lending requirements
from the bill.
McCollum and other Republicans said they opposed extending the ideals of the reinvestment act because its
paperwork requirements had proved costly to banks. “Because the banks do it doesn't mean we ought to make the
credit unions do it,” McCollum said. Spencer Bachus, R-Ala., added that the provision was just “a little sop to
bankers” that bill authors had added in an attempt to make the measure more palatable.
But Democrats countered that the reinvestment act had greatly improved banks' and savings institutions' lending
rates to minorities and low-income people. “Paperwork is necessary sometimes if you're going to be intent upon
eliminating discrimination,” said Joseph P. Kennedy II, D-Mass.
The committee defeated McCollum's amendment, 22-32. It also defeated, 18-33, a subsequent attempt by Thomas
M. Barrett, D-Wis., to require that evaluations of credit unions' lending records to low- and middle-income people be
made public.
The panel also considered an amendment by Baker that would have limited the size of separate groups eligible to
join a credit union to 1,000, down from the bill's 3,000 limit. But Baker dropped his amendment when Bernard
Sanders, I-Vt., said he would amend it to increase the limit to 7,500.
Bill Cut Loose From Financial Services Overhaul
April 4 Hours before the House was to adjourn for spring break April 1, members overwhelmingly passed a bill to
ease the concerns of many constituents. By a vote of 411-8, the House passed a measure (HR 1151) to allow credit
unions to continue to expand and current credit union members to retain their accounts. The bill essentially would
overturn a Feb. 25 Supreme Court ruling that said credit unions had overstepped legal bounds in seeking new
members who did not have a common employer, organization or geographic tie to the chartering organization. (Vote
92, p. H-28)
The quick action became possible when Republican leaders decided March 31 to allow the bill to move on its own,
releasing it from a marriage to a broader and more controversial measure (HR 10) to overhaul the financial services
industry.
Credit union supporters had strenuously objected to linking the two measures. Rep. John J. LaFalce of New York, the
ranking Democrat on the Banking and Financial Services Committee, likened the credit union bill's attachment to HR
10 to “a first-class ticket on the ship Titanic.”
Republican leaders were forced to split the two when it became clear they did not have enough votes to move a
7/9/09 3:43 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal98-0000191040&type=hitlist&num=6
Republican leaders were forced to split the two when it became clear they did not have enough votes to move a
combined bill. They announced March 31 that they would not try to move HR 10 again until the week of May 4, but
they scheduled the credit union bill for consideration under an expedited floor procedure allowing no amendments
and requiring a two-thirds majority for passage.
The quick action on HR 1151 was both a sign of the broad-based support it had garnered — more than 200
members had signed on to the original version, including Speaker Newt Gingrich, R-Ga., and Minority Whip David E.
Bonior, D-Mich. — and of the grass-roots power of credit unions. With more than 70 million members, 20 million of
whom could be affected by the high court's ruling, the credit unions presented a formidable presence on the Hill,
both in person and by phone and letter.
After House leaders announced that they would pull HR 10 from the floor, Banking Committee Chairman Jim Leach,
R-Iowa, quickly pointed out that the credit union bill would move because “we think it's important that people be
relieved of any angst.”
The Senate, which held a hearing on the credit union issue April 2, is expected to take up a measure addressing
the court ruling when it returns from the break. Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee Chairman
Alfonse M. D'Amato, R-N.Y., who has been hesitant to move HR 10, has pledged his support to credit unions. He
wants some changes in HR 1151, but said he expects to see legislation enacted this year.
Feeding the Movement
The bill the House passed April 1 would allow credit unions to continue accepting members from groups unrelated to
the chartering organization, but those groups could not include more than 3,000 potential members. Such affiliations
often occurred when a business with a credit union shut down and left members in limbo.
The limit on the size of new membership groups was a Banking Committee compromise between the 7,500 sought
by credit unions and the 1,000 proposed by banks, which opposed the expansion of credit unions. Banks said they,
as taxpaying companies, should not have to compete with credit unions, which do not pay taxes. Credit union
officials countered that their members pay taxes and that unlike banks, credit unions are run to benefit their
members, not investors.
The Banking Committee version of the bill, approved March 26, included a provision to require the Federal Reserve
to pay interest on “sterile reserves” that banks are required to keep. But the provision, which aimed to soften the
credit union bill's blow to banks, was pulled before House debate because of Clinton administration concerns about
its estimated $800 million cost over five years.
Credit Union Bill Survives Scuffles In Senate Banking
May 2 A heavily lobbied bill to allow credit unions to sidestep a Supreme Court ruling and continue expanding their
membership won approval from the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee on April 30, but not
without a fight that indicated trouble to come on the Senate floor. The vote was 16-2.
The issue that sparked pointed exchanges was the 1977 Community Reinvestment Act (PL 95-128), which requires
a bank to meet the borrowing needs of people in the community it serves, including those in low-income and
minority neighborhoods. The regulation, a priority for most Democrats and anathema to most Republicans, also
makes the bank's lending records public.
To appease banks, who oppose the credit union measure (HR 1151), House members included a provision that
generally would extend many of the reinvestment act's requirements to credit unions. The House easily passed the
bill April 1. (1977 Almanac, p. 126)
But several Senate Republicans said they found that trade-off “just plain silly,” as Connie Mack, R-Fla., put it. Added
Lauch Faircloth, RN.C.: “To me, this is a trainload of new regulations and requirements. We should be lifting it from
banks, particularly small banks, not putting it on credit unions.”
Phil Gramm, R-Texas, introduced an amendment to remove the reinvestment provisions from the bill, and Richard C.
Shelby, R-Ala., attempted to attach a provision that would lift reinvestment requirements from banks with assets of
less than $250 million.
But Banking Committee Chairman Alfonse M. D'Amato, R-N.Y., urged his Republican colleagues to “exercise some
restraint,” saying the attempts were “counterproductive to our effort of dealing with the credit unions up front.”
Ranking Democrat Paul S. Sarbanes of Maryland warned that past efforts to repeal the act had prompted veto
threats from President Clinton. “We are going to greatly complicate moving this matter toward final passage,”
Sarbanes said. Shelby said he believed “we would have the votes to override a presidential veto.”
After D'Amato voted with Democrats and Shelby's amendment failed, 9-9, Gramm withdrew his amendment. But
both Shelby and Gramm said their amendments would be back on the Senate floor. Chuck Hagel, R-Neb., who
joined Mack in voting against the bill, said he was preparing an amendment to another controversial provision that
would restrict credit union business loans to members.
Gramm vowed not to delay the bill, but after the markup Sarbanes lamented that “all of this is just throwing clouds
7/9/09 3:43 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal98-0000191040&type=hitlist&num=6
Gramm vowed not to delay the bill, but after the markup Sarbanes lamented that “all of this is just throwing clouds
of dust around this legislation.”
Compromise on Expansion
The impetus for the credit union bill came Feb. 25, when the Supreme Court ruled that credit unions and their
federal overseer, the National Credit Union Administration, had overstepped legal boundaries in seeking members who
shared no “ common bond” in employment, profession or location to the chartering organization.
Officials at the Credit Union National Association and the National Association of Federal Credit Unions had long
expected the ruling and set out immediately to overturn it, mobilizing many of the nation's 70 million credit union
members to write letters and make calls. Both House Speaker Newt Gingrich, R-Ga., and Minority Whip David E.
Bonior, D-Mich., signed on to the original version of HR 1151, which would have overturned the court's decision
outright.
But banks strongly opposed that legislation, saying it created little distinction between credit unions and banks
except that credit unions do not pay taxes.
The House Banking and Financial Services Committee tempered the plans, approving a bill that would let credit
union members keep their accounts and permit credit unions to join with unrelated groups, as long as the groups
would not provide more than 3,000 members. The bill suffered a momentary setback when House GOP leaders
combined it with a measure (HR 10) to revamp financial services laws. Allowed to move on its own, the credit union
bill passed overwhelmingly.
Credit union backers expected they might have a tougher task in the Senate, where small community banks have
more powerful supporters. But GOP and Democratic staff members along with credit union and bank lobbyists
worked out deals April 29 that addressed the most controversial amendments, including the commercial lending
issue.
The compromise, which the committee accepted as part of the bill, would prevent credit unions from placing more
than 1.75 times their net worth in business loans to members. Hagel plans to offer a floor amendment that would
further restrict such lending by counting more loans as business loans. Currently, the credit union administration
counts any loan of less than $50,000 as a personal loan. Hagel's amendment would remove that threshold.
The compromise included increased “safety and soundness” standards, such as provisions requested by the
Treasury Department to strengthen the federal account that insures credit union deposits.
The committee also approved by voice vote a Shelby amendment that would require a majority vote of members for
a credit union to convert to a mutual savings bank.
Senate Passes Bill; Differences With House Remain
August 1 A measure to allow credit unions to continue expanding their membership bases won easy Senate
approval July 28 when it finally reached the floor after months on the shelf. The vote was 92-6. (Vote 239, p. S-38)
Issues that had delayed consideration of the bill (HR 1151) since April, when the Banking, Housing and Urban
Affairs Committee approved it, surfaced during floor debate. Although the Senate accepted a controversial
amendment, the House may nevertheless swallow the changes and clear the bill the week of Aug. 3 instead of
sending the measure to a House-Senate conference committee to resolve differences.
The amendment the Senate adoptedby voice vote July 28 removed a provision that would have applied regulations
similar to those in the 1977 Community Reinvestment Act (PL 95-128) to credit unions. The act now applies only to
banks. It requires federal regulators, when considering a bank's application for a merger, new branch or other
endeavor, to take into account whether the bank made loans to all geographic areas within its community —
including low-income and minority neighborhoods. (1977 Almanac, p. 126)
The chamber voted 44-50 on July 27 against tabling (killing) the amendment. (Vote 236, p. S-37)
Its sponsor, Phil Gramm, R-Texas, repeatedly described the reinvestment act as “extortion” and contended that it
could not logically apply to a cooperative organization such as a credit union. But Democrats defended the 1977 law
as a tool that has made commercial banks more responsive to minorities and others who once found it difficult to
obtain credit. Some House Democrats say that credit unions also need to be encouraged to loan to lower-income
members and to seek out more such members. And, in a statement, the administration said the provision was
“particularly important to keeping credit unions focused on their public mission.”
Removal of the provision, however, did not prompt a veto threat. Another amendment did. The proposal, by Richard
C. Shelby, R-Ala., would have lifted community reinvestment requirements on banks with less than $250 million in
assets. The Senate voted 59-39 to table Shelby's amendment. (Vote 238, p. S-37)
It also voted 53-42 to table a controversial amendment by Republican Chuck Hagel of Nebraska to limit the amount
of business loans that credit unions could make to members. (Vote 237, p. S-37)
Appeasing Banks and Democrats
7/9/09 3:43 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal98-0000191040&type=hitlist&num=6
The provision that caused the most consternation during Senate debate would allow federal regulators to examine
credit unions' lending records to ensure they were providing “affordable” services to people of modest means who
were eligible to join the credit union. That is a scaled-down version of reinvestment requirements on banks.
The provision first appeared when the House Banking and Financial Services Committee approved its version of HR
1151 on March 26 and sought to temper bankers' opposition to the bill.
Banks and credit unions have long feuded over who should be allowed to join a credit union, in large part because
banks view credit unions as competitors who have the advantage of paying no federal income tax. The fight
culminated in February in a Supreme Court ruling that credit unions and their federal overseer, the National Credit
Union Administration, had overstepped legal boundaries in seeking members from groups that did not share a
“common bond” with the originating group.
Leaders of the two main credit union associations — the Credit Union National Association and the National
Association of Federal Credit Unions — had been lobbying Congress, using the credit unions' considerable grass-
roots operations, to overturn the decision even before it was announced. According to the groups, about 70 million
Americans belong to credit unions and 20 million could have found their memberships jeopardized by the court
ruling.
The issue soon became a consumer rights matter. Leaders of both parties were quick to sign on to a measure that
would have overturned the court's decision outright.
But banks vociferously opposed the measure and used their considerable financial firepower to lobby against it. To
appease the banks somewhat, the House Banking Committee decided to attach requirements similar to the
Community Reinvestment Act — which some bankers consider onerous — to the credit union bill.
The addition never appeased bankers enough to prompt them to support the bill, but it made the measure even
sweeter for many liberal Democrats.
At the Senate Banking Committee markup in April, many Republicans objected to the reinvestment provision. But
Gramm agreed to withhold an amendment to remove it until floor debate. Shelby's amendment to lift reinvestment
requirements for small banks was defeated, 9-9, when panel Chairman Alfonse M. D'Amato, RN.Y., joined all
committee Democrats in voting against it.
When the full Senate took up the bill, Shelby again introduced his amendment. “Since HR 1151 increases the
competitive advantage credit unions have over banks … this amendment is necessary to reduce the inequities in
this area,” he said.
But Democrats and D'Amato argued that Shelby's amendment would jeopardize the bill's chances for enactment.
And John Kerry, D-Mass., challenged Shelby's claim that small banks naturally lend to the entire community. “It's
very simple,” Kerry said. Before the reinvestment act, “they weren't doing it.”
Most Democrats also opposed Gramm's amendment, but D'Amato supported it, saying there was no evidence that
credit unions had been “redlining” or otherwise discriminating against minority or low-income people who wanted to
take out loans.
The Senate tabled Hagel's amendment to make the bill's caps on business loans made by credit unions more
stringent. The proposal would have prevented a credit union from making commercial loans totaling more than 7
percent of its net worth, down from 12.25 percent in the bill. The amendment also would have overturned
regulations that allow credit unions to count any loans under $50,000 as personal loans, even if they might cover
business expenses. And it would have required credit unions that made commercial loans to have employees with
at least two years of “ direct professional experience” in business lending.
Credit unions set up specifically to make loans in traditionally credit-poor industries, such as farming or trucking,
would be exempted from commercial lending caps in the bill and in Hagel's amendment.
Hagel and amendment cosponsor Robert F. Bennett, R-Utah, said the proposal was necessary to ensure that credit
unions remain financially sound if they intend to make business loans.
But D'Amato and others said it would severely hamper many credit unions' ability to make business loans to their
members. D'Amato questioned the need to limit credit unions' business loans when the $40 billion in commercial
loans to businesses made by credit unions annually is approximately 3 percent of total loans to businesses.
House Accepts Senate Changes
August 8 The House cleared legislation Aug. 4 to allow credit unions to continue expanding their membership
bases, as lawmakers swallowed two controversial changes made by the Senate. President Clinton signed the bill
Aug. 7.
The measure (HR 1151 — H Rept 105 -472, S Rept 105-193) passed by voice vote as numerous members
praised it. Banking and Financial Services Committee Chairman Jim Leach, R-Iowa, called credit unions “democracy
at work in the marketplace” and said the measure ensured that current credit union members would not lose their
7/9/09 3:43 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal98-0000191040&type=hitlist&num=6
at work in the marketplace” and said the measure ensured that current credit union members would not lose their
accounts because of a February Supreme Court ruling. In that decision, National Credit Union Administration v. First
National Bank & Trust Co., the court ruled 5-4 that credit unions and their federal overseer had overstepped legal
boundaries in seeking new members who did not share a common occupational, organizational or regional bond
with charter members. Credit union activists said the ruling could have affected 20 million members.
But the bill contained more provisions than the clause that would allow members to keep their accounts. And some
House Democrats, who had worked hard to attach a provision that would have required credit unions to provide
affordable services to people of all incomes, were dismayed by the Senate's decision to remove it.
Joseph P. Kennedy II, D-Mass., denounced the Senate version, saying, “They went into the back room … and they
knocked out all of the provisions that are supposed to protect the consumer.” But ranking Banking Committee
Democrat John J. LaFalce of New York said the credit union administration could impose such requirements, and he
urged passage. LaFalce said he was more concerned about a Senate provision that would allow credit unions to
convert to thrifts without a majority of members voting for the change.
Document Citation
"Congress Clears Legislation Allowing Credit Unions To Expand Membership." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online
Edition, cqal98-0000191040. Originally published in CQ Almanac 1998 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1999).
http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal98-0000191040 (accessed July 9, 2009).
Document ID: cqal98-0000191040
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal98-0000191040
© 1999, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
