7/9/09 3:44 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 6http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal98-0000191041&type=hitlist&num=6
Stock Market and Financial
Services
2004 Stock Option Accountability
2001 SEC Law a Win for Wall Street
1999 Major Overhaul Enacted Of Rules
Governing the Financial Services
Industry
1998 Loophole Fix Moves Class-Action
Securities Suits From State to
Federal Courts
1998 Financial Services Overhaul Dies
in Senate, A Victim of Friendly
Fire
1997 Financial Services Overhaul Stalls
1996 Securities Regulation Provisions
1996 Financial Services Provisions
1996 Congress Streamlines Securities
Rules
1994 Other Securities-Related Bills
Considered in 1994
1994 Financial Services Trade Bill
Falters at Session's End
1993 Financial Services Bill Seeks To
Open Markets
1993 Bill Tightens Regulation of
Government Bond Market
1992 Government Securities Bill Is
Quashed
1991 Government Securities Bill
Considered
1990 Market Control Authority of the
Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) Increased
1990 Congress Passes Bills
Strengthening Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC)
1989 Securities Arbitration
1989 Market Reform Stalled
1988 Stock Market Regulation
1988 Insider-Trading Bill
1986 Securities Dealer Regulations
1985 Government Securities Firms
1982 Commodity Futures Trading Bill
Cleared
1980 Securities Investor Privacy
1977 Investor Protection
1975 Overhaul Of Securities Industry
Approved
1974 Rules Committee Blocks
Securities Bill
1974 Municipal Bonds Regulation
1973 Stock Exchange Membership
1973 Securities Transactions
1973 Securities Thefts
1973 Federal Financing Bank
1972 Securities Transactions
1972 Securities Industry
1971 Securities Thefts: Mafia Moves on
Wall Street
1971 Securities Industry
Loophole Fix Moves Class-Action Securities
Suits From State to Federal Courts
An article from CQ Almanac 1998
Document Outline
Senate Panel Aims To Block End Run Around 1995 Law
Senate Passes Bill To Move Suits To Federal Courts
House Commerce Subcommittee OKs Measure
Full Committee Gives Its Approval To Amended Bill
House Passage Sends Legislation To Conference
Senate, House Adopt Report, Quickly Clear Bill
Despite their disagreements over a 1995 law (PL 104-67) to restrict securities
fraud lawsuits, Congress and President Clinton came together on a measure
to further cut down on class-action lawsuits against companies whose
earnings do not meet expectations. The law makes federal courts the sole
venue for class action lawsuits involving 50 or more plaintiffs that allege
securities fraud by a nationally traded company. Bill proponents said the
follow-up measure was necessary because some law firms had begun to file
“baseless” lawsuits in state courts after enactment of the 1995 law, which
increased the amount of information a plaintiff had to disclose to file in federal
court and made it harder to prove fraud.
Senate Panel Aims To Block End Run Around
1995 Law
May 2 In 1995, a measure that aimed to make it harder to sue nationally
traded companies for securities fraud took more than nine months to make it
through Congress. Some Democrats railed against it; the Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC) endorsed it reluctantly, and President Clinton
vetoed it. The bill's bipartisan backers won a major victory, however, when
Congress overrode the veto.
Three years later, the bill's supportersare finding it easier to move a follow-up
measure that they say would plug a perceived loophole blocking the 1995
law's effectiveness. That loophole, they say, has allowed a handful of sly law
firms to bypass the 1995 law's (PL 104-67) higher standards and file their
cases in state court.
When the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee took up the
follow-up bill (S 1260) on April 29, its few opponents acknowledged that their
objections could not stop it from becoming law.
Opponents became resigned to their loss April 28 when presidential advisers
Bruce Lindsey and Gene Sperling sent a letter to committee Chairman Alfonse
M. D'Amato, R-N.Y., and bill sponsors Phil Gramm, R-Texas, and Christopher J.
Dodd, D-Conn., saying the administration would support the bill if the
committee accepted changes that had been worked out with the SEC.
The measure would require securities fraud class-action suits involving more
than 50 parties to be filed in federal court, where the tougher standards of the
1995 act would apply.
The SEC changes redefined class action, increasing the limit on the number
of parties allowable in state suits from 25 to 50. The changes also would
allow shareholders to continue to bring lawsuits in Delaware courts under a
state law that holds information corporations give to shareholders to higher
 
7/9/09 3:44 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 6http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal98-0000191041&type=hitlist&num=6
1971 Securities Industry
1970 Securities Exemption
1970 Protection for Stockholders
1970 Mutual Funds: New Controls
After Four-Year Delay
1970 Congress Clears Securities
Investor Protection Bill
1969 Securities Hearings
1969 Mutual Funds
1968 Securities Disclosure
1968 Over-The-Counter Securities
1968 Institutional Investors Study
1967 Securities Disclosure
1967 Hearings Held on S.E.C. Bill to
Regulate Mutual Funds
1965 Securities Fees
1964 Controls Over Stock Issues and
Dealers Strengthened
1963 SEC Study Submitted; Senate
Approves Bill
1962 S.E.C. Activities
1955 Stock Market Study
1955 Government Securities
1954 Changes In SEC Law
Bill S 1260 — PL 105 - 353
House action The House cleared
the conference report (H Rept 105
-803) on S 1260, 319-82, on Oct.
13. It passed S 1260, 340-83, on July
22, after substituting the language of
its version (HR 1689 — H Rept 105
-640).
Senate action The Senate adopted
the conference report on S 1260 by
voice vote Oct. 13. The Senate passed
S 1260 (S Rept 105 -182), 79-21,
on May 13.
Presidential action Clinton signed
S 1260 on Nov. 3.
state law that holds information corporations give to shareholders to higher
standards than that they give to the general public. In addition, senators
agreed to include report language that clarified that the 1995 act did not
intend to prohibit plaintiffs from filing claims alleging “reckless misconduct” by
a nationally traded company.
A day later, the committee accepted those changes and approved the bill, 14-
4. Voting against it were three Democrats — ranking member Paul S.
Sarbanes of Maryland, Richard H. Bryan of Nevada and Tim Johnson of
South Dakota — and one Republican, Richard C. Shelby of Alabama.
The bill is thought to be on a fast track. The House Commerce Committee is
expected to move a companion measure (HR 1689) soon, and Senate
leaders have pledged to bring the bill to the floor before Congress leaves for
its Memorial Day break May 22. However, a Republican House aide said it
did not appear the bill would move to the House floor before the recess.
Curbing a Trend
When Congress overrode
Clinton's veto in 1995, it
aimed to stem the practice of
filing lawsuits against
companies whose stock had
not met company predictions,
even though fraud was not
involved. (1995 Almanac, p. 2-90)
Suits sometimes were filed “within minutes of stock fluctuations,”
Dodd said, and sometimes triggered by computer programs
searching for volatile stocks.
Sponsors believed that by requiring plaintiffs to cite specific facts to
back their claims and by creating a “safe harbor” for companies to
make predictions about future earnings without being liable for them
if they were paired with cautionary statements, they would prompt a
free flow of information.
Consumer advocates, trial lawyers and large institutional investors
such as government finance officers, however, worried that the
changes would hamper access to the courts for those who had
been wronged.
Both groups turned out to be wrong, largely because the law did not preclude plaintiffs from moving their cases to
state courts, which generally had less stringent rules than the filing standards spelled out in the 1995 law.
According to a February study by the accounting firm of Price Waterhouse, the number of class-action securities
suits similar to cases generally filed in federal courts before 1995 jumped in state court from a total of 12 in 1995 to
71 in 1996 before declining to 39 in 1997. About half of the 1997 cases were filed simultaneously with a related
case in federal court.
The number of federal cases also rebounded. According to the SEC, the number of companies sued in federal
class-action suits dropped from 158 in 1995 to 105 in 1996, but then increased to 175 in 1997.
Dodd said the numbers showed that investors had not been precluded from filing suits, as opponents had alleged in
1995, and that the number of state suits was increasing. Even if it was not a “flood-tide,” Dodd said, “there are clear
indications that's where it's going.”
But the statistics prompted opponents to question the need for legislation. “No need has been demonstrated to pre-
empt state causes of action that may be more favorable to investors,” Sarbanes said.
Amendments
Sarbanes, Bryan and Johnson offered three amendments that aimed to prevent the pre-emption of certain state
laws or to redefine the bill's provision on what constituted a class-action suit. All three were defeated.
The committee rejected 6-12 two amendments by the three senators that would have allowed plaintiffs required to
file in federal court to import laws from their states that gave them longer to file a suit after possible fraud and that
allowed them to sue people who “aided or abetted” securities fraud. The senators said 33 states had longer statutes
of limitations than the federal law, which requires plaintiffs to file within one year of learning of fraud and within three
years of its occurrence. Forty-nine states allow plaintiffs to sue those who “aided and abetted” fraud.
It defeated 5-13 an amendment by Sarbanes and Bryan to remove a portion of the bill that would allow state judges
to lump together securities suits against a common defendant and ship the consolidated case to federal court if more
than 50 parties were involved.
7/9/09 3:44 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 6http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal98-0000191041&type=hitlist&num=6
Bill supporters said they had insertedthe language to prevent law firms from finding another loophole to negate the
1995 law, but Sarbanes said he feared that it would hurt individual investors. “The pendulum swings too much in the
other direction,” he said.
Sarbanes said he worried that the bill was coming at a bad time, when 43 percent of adult Americans have invested
in the stock market. “History suggests that at some point, the bull market will end, and when it does, it's reasonable
to anticipate that securities fraud will be exposed,” he said, adding that investors will then be surprised to find that
Congress has limited their options.
But D'Amato said the bill was “an attempt to protect the investor” by making companies' financial information more
available. And he called it a “narrow” bill designed only to limit class action suits, not individual suits or the ability of
state or federal regulators to pursue cases of fraud.
Senate Passes Bill To Move Suits To Federal Courts
May 16 Legislation aimed at curbing class action lawsuits against companies with volatile stocks passed the
Senate on May 13 after lawmakers turned back two Democratic amendments. The bill (S 1260) would make federal
courts the sole venue for class action suits alleging securities fraud. The vote was 79-21. (Vote 135, p. S-23)
A House panel will mark up a companion measure (HR 1689) after the Memorial Day break, said Rep. Michael G.
Oxley, R-Ohio, chairman of the Commerce Subcommittee on Finance and Hazardous Waste. Oxley said he
expected his panel, which plans to hold a hearing on its bill May 19, to adapt it to the Senate measure to clear the
legislation easily. The measure has the support of the Clinton administration and the Securities and Exchange
Commission.
The bills aim to close a loophole in a measure (PL 104-67) that Congress enacted in 1995 over President Clinton's
veto. That law, which sought to stem what sponsors believed to be a growing number of baseless lawsuits against
publicly traded companies, forced plaintiffs to cite specific facts to back their claims and otherwise changed rules
governing federal class action suits. It also aimed to foster a free flow of market information by giving company
executives legal cover to predict their stock's performance as long as they included cautionary statements.
But the act applied only to federal courts. Supporters of S 1260 say that has allowed a handful of law firms to move
their cases to state courts, which generally have less stringent standards than the 1995 act.
Many of the lawsuits “clearly are a stain on the rightful practice of law,” said Alfonse M. D'Amato, R-N.Y., chairman of
the Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee. He said the stockholders end up paying for the lawsuits
because companies typically settle out of court and pay with proceeds that otherwise would be distributed. “These
suits appear like they are intended to protect stockholders, but it is the little guys with the stock that end up paying
the bill,” D'Amato said.
The bill's sponsors, Phil Gramm, R-Texas, and Christopher J. Dodd, D-Conn., said many of the lawsuits are initiated
by lawyers targeting volatile stocks, such as those issued by hightechnology companies, not by aggrieved investors.
But the panel's ranking Democrat, Paul S. Sarbanes of Maryland, said that by attempting to stem a few abusive
lawsuits, the bill would preclude some investors who had been defrauded from seeking redress. The bill, Sarbanes
said, was “swinging the pendulum well beyond the problem. … In and of itself, it creates additional problems.”
He found little company for those arguments. Only 18 Democrats and two Republicans — John McCain of Arizona
and Richard C. Shelby of Alabama — joined him in voting against the bill.
Provisions
The bill would require securities fraud class action suits, defined as those involving more than 50 parties, to be filed
in federal court. It would apply only to nationally traded securities. The bill would allow shareholders to continue to
bring class action suits against companies in state court in Delaware if they believed the companies had violated a
Delaware law that holds information given to shareholders to higher standards than data given to the general public.
The committee report on the bill also includes language clarifying that the 1995 act did not intend to prevent
investors from suing firms for “reckless misconduct.” Some courts had interpreted the statute that way. Sarbanes
said he believed the issue should have been codified in the bill and not just included in report language.
Sarbanes made three efforts to change the bill, succeeding only once.
He offered an amendment that would have allowed plaintiffs who were required to file in federal court to import
statute-of-limitation laws from their states that give them longer to file a suit. It was tabled (killed), 69-30. (Vote 133,
p. S-22)
Another amendment would have removed a portion of the bill that would allow state judges to lump together
securities suits against a common defendant and ship the consolidated case to federal court if more than 50 parties
were involved. The Senate tabled it, 72-27. (Vote 134, p. S-23)
The third, approved by voice vote, would make certain that states, other political subdivisions or state pension funds
7/9/09 3:44 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 6http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal98-0000191041&type=hitlist&num=6
The third, approved by voice vote, would make certain that states, other political subdivisions or state pension funds
could not be prevented from bringing a class action securities fraud suit in conjunction with other government
entities.
House Commerce Subcommittee OKs Measure
June 13 A bill to cut state courts' jurisdiction over securities class-action lawsuits continued its easy march through
Congress on June 10 as a House Commerce subcommittee approved it, 21-4.
The measure (HR 1689) appears to have no obstacles. Both the Securities and Exchange Commission and the White
House have issued letters in support of a companion Senate measure (S 1260). And to avoid sending the bill to a
House-Senate conference after House passage, the Finance and Hazardous Materials Subcommittee approved by
voice vote a substitute amendment that added most features of the Senate bill, which that chamber passed May 13.
The House Commerce Committee may debate the measure in the next two weeks.
The bill aims to plug a loophole in a law (PL 104-67) Congress passed in 1995 to stem what sponsors believed to
be a growing number of baseless lawsuits against publicly traded companies with volatile stocks. The measure
toughened the rules regarding such class-action suits in federal court. But since the law was enacted, some trial
lawyers, including Bill Lerach, a San Diego lawyer often mentioned during the subcommittee markup, have shifted
their efforts to state courts.
This year's measure would define securities class-action fraud suits as those in which more than 50 parties were
allegedly defrauded in transactions involving nationally traded stock. Those suits would have to be filed in federal
court. Also, state judges could consolidate cases in which 50 or more individuals had filed separate cases involving
similar claims and transfer the consolidated case to federal court.
As in the Senate debate, a small but vocal group of Democrats opposed the measure at the House panel markup.
The four Democrats who voted against the measure — Bart Stupak and John D. Dingell, both of Michigan; Diana
DeGette of Colorado; and Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts — said the bill would prevent defrauded investors
from seeking redress.
While bill sponsor Rick White, R-Wash., and subcommittee Chairman Michael G. Oxley, R-Ohio, argued that individual
investors' right to sue in state courts was protected, Stupak said the provision giving judges discretion would mean
that “you get involuntarily placed in these situations.” Added Dingell: “You're rigging the market so it favors scam
artists.”
Markey offered two amendments, both of which he said had been requested by the SEC.
One would have extended the federal-statute of limitations — the timeline under which investors must sue — to five
years after the fraud occurred or three years after it was discovered. Under current law, investors have three years
after the fraud or one year after its discovery to sue. It was defeated, 6-20.
The other would have restored the ability of allegedly defrauded investors to sue accountants, lawyers or others who
might have aided a fraud. In a 1994 ruling in Central Bank of Denver v. First Interstate Bank of Denver, the
Supreme Court eliminated that right. Markey's amendment failed by voice vote.
Full Committee Gives Its Approval To Amended Bill
June 27 Bipartisan proponents of a bill to make federal courts the sole venue for class action securities fraud
lawsuits tried to appease the measure's few remaining detractors, as the House Commerce Committee approved
the measure by voice vote June 24.
In a substitute amendment to the bill (HR 1689) that the committee accepted by voice vote, panel Chairman Thomas
J. Bliley Jr., R-Va., addressed some Democratic concerns that had surfaced when the Finance and Hazardous
Materials Subcommittee approved the measure June 10.
Among the additions: a provision pushed by committee ranking Democrat John D. Dingell of Michigan stipulating
that state judges would retain the discretion to determine if 50 or more individual cases share a common bond, such
as the same defendant, and should be consolidated into a class action suit and transferred to federal courts.
The bill would require that class action suits involving 50 or more parties be transferred from state to federal courts,
which have the stricter standards for plaintiffs prescribed by a 1995 law (PL 104-67) that Congress enacted over
President Clinton's veto. (1995 Almanac, p. 2-90)
That law aimed to stem what proponents believed was an increasing number of baseless lawsuits filed against
companies that happened to have volatile stocks — such as hightechnology businesses — but had not committed
fraud. Because the law toughened federal rules but did not address state cases, several lawyers who had been
filing those cases shifted their efforts to state court, in effect nullifying the law, bill supporters say.
Other additions in Bliley's substitute amendment included a provision pushed by Thomas J. Manton, D-N.Y., to
encourage states to respect subpoenas sent by securities regulators from other states seeking information about a
7/9/09 3:44 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 6http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal98-0000191041&type=hitlist&num=6
encourage states to respect subpoenas sent by securities regulators from other states seeking information about a
potential fraud. The provision also would streamline the subpoena process used by enforcers at the Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC).
Bliley's amendment attached a separate measure (HR 1262) to the bill that would authorize $351.3 million in fiscal
1999 for the SEC. The House passed that non-controversial bill in November, but the Senate never acted on it.
Many of Bliley's actions aimed to assuage some Democrats' opposition to the bill, but a few said they still strongly
opposed the measure. Diana DeGette of Colorado said she feared the bill would “substantially hurt state securities
laws.”
But Anna G. Eshoo, D-Calif., who cosponsored the bill with Rick White, R-Wash., said the 1995 law had been
undermined. “As long as the threat of state actions remains, the reforms will never be implemented,” she said.
The Senate easily passed its version (S 1260) of the bill May 13. Though Bliley and other House Commerce leaders
have attempted to amend the House measure to make it nearly identical to the Senate bill — and thus avoid a
House-Senate conference — White said June 24 that he believed a conference would be necessary.
The House and Senate bills differ on the specifics of a provision allowing state and local governments, including
state pension plans, to continue to file securities class action suits in state courts.
House Passage Sends Legislation To Conference
July 25 A priority measure for hightechnology businesses headed for a House-Senate conference July 22 after the
House passed it, 340-83. The bill (HR 1689) would make federal courts, with their tougher standards, the sole
venue for most class action lawsuits alleging securities fraud against companies with volatile stocks, such as
hightech firms. (Vote 318, p. H-92)
The Senate passed a similar bill (S 1260) on May 13.
Though the two bills were nearly identical when introduced, changes made in House markups and on the Senate
floor will need to be resolved.
The major differences include the House's inclusion of a separate measure (HR 1262) to reauthorize the Securities
and Exchange Commission (SEC) and varying provisions in both bills specifying when local governments can sue for
securities fraud.
The bills would allow state and local governments, including state pension plans, to sue in a class action in state
courts. They would generally be exempt from the new law directing suits to federal court, as long as the class action
was made up only of government entities.
But the House bill would require that the entities authorize their participation in the case and be named as plaintiffs.
They could not benefit from a favorable verdict in a class action suit in which they were not named, even if they
were defrauded by the defendant. This would limit the number of entities that could receive awards after winning a
case. The Senate bill does not contain those requirements.
In addition, the House Judiciary Committee objects to certain provisions added by the Commerce Committee, which
marked up the bill. The Judiciary Committee did not mark up the bill despite having jurisdiction over some
provisions, but it objected to language that would streamline the subpoena process used by enforcers at the SEC.
The provision was removed from HR 1689 before the House passed it, but Commerce Committee Chairman Thomas
J. Bliley Jr., R-Va., assured provision sponsor Thomas J. Manton, D-N.Y., that he would fight to include it in the final
version.
The bills aim to close a loophole in a measure (PL 104-67) that Congress enacted in 1995 over President Clinton's
veto. That law, which sought to stem what sponsors believed to be a growing number of baseless lawsuits against
publicly traded companies, forced plaintiffs to cite specific facts to back their claims and otherwise changed rules
governing federal class action suits.(1995 Almanac, p. 2-90)
But the act applied only to federal courts. Supporters of the bills, such as House sponsors Rick White, R-Wash., and
Anna G. Eshoo, D-Calif., say that a handful of law firms have moved their cases to state courts to avoid the
heightened federal standards.
The bills would require that any class action suit involving 50 or more parties be transferred to federal court. It also
would allow state court judges to consolidate cases that share a common bond, such as the same plaintiff, and ship
them to federal court as one class action suit involving 50 or more parties.
Senate, House Adopt Report, Quickly Clear Bill
October 17 With the stock market in a volatile cycle, Congress cleared a measure Oct. 13 that aims to cut down
on class action lawsuits against companies whose earnings do not meet expectations.
The Senate adopted the conference report on the bill (S 1260) by voice vote Oct. 13 and the House cleared it, 319-
7/9/09 3:44 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 6http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal98-0000191041&type=hitlist&num=6
The Senate adopted the conference report on the bill (S 1260) by voice vote Oct. 13 and the House cleared it, 319-
82, the same day. (Vote 528, p. H-150)
President Clinton is expected to sign the bill, even though it would expand a law (PL 104-67) that Congress enacted
in 1995 over his veto. The administration's position has changed, in part because Congress addressed some
concerns of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in this year's measure, and in part because of the ease
with which Congress overrode the 1995 veto. (1995 Almanac, p. 2-90)
The 1995 measure increased the standards for bringing a lawsuit, requiring more specific information before
plaintiffs could bring to federal court a class action suit alleging securities fraud. But the act did not address
standards in state courts. The result, bill proponents said, was that a handful of law firms that represent most
plaintiffs in securities fraud suits moved their efforts to state courts.
This year's measure would move all securities fraud class action suits involving 50 or more parties to federal courts.
In addition, 50 or more securities fraud cases filed separately in the same state court and involving “ common
questions of law” could be consolidated and moved to federal court.
Bill proponent Michael G. Oxley, R-Ohio, chairman of the House Commerce Committee's panel on Finance and
Hazardous Materials, said such action was necessary because some plaintiffs would attempt to capitalize on the
stock market's ups and downs. “If fraud were the only reason that stock prices dropped, then today's volatile
markets would suggest that there is not an honest company out there,” he said.
But John D. Dingell of Michigan, the Commerce Committee's ranking Democrat, charged that the bill was “
shamelessly fleecing investors … This conference report nails the state courthouse door shut to little investors,” he
said.
The most difficult issue to be resolved between the House and Senate bills involved clarifying whether the 1995 act
intended to remove “reckless misconduct” by nationally traded companies as a basis for securities fraud suits.
Many senators wanted bill language that would definitively preserve “reckless misconduct” as the basis for suits, but
some House Republicans were hesitant to go along. Negotiators agreed to include language in the conference
report explaining that Congress did not mean to change the “reckless misconduct” standard when it passed the
1995 bill. Some courts had interpreted the law as removing “reckless misconduct” as a basis for suits.
Democrats were angered Oct. 13 when they found out that the language had been omitted from the conference
report that bill managers filed. Republicans said the omission was a mistake, and they attached it to the final version
before either chamber adopted it.
The bill would allow state and local governments, including state pension plans, to continue filing securities fraud
class action suits in state courts, as long as all the plaintiffs were government entities. It also would authorize
$351.3 million in SEC funding in fiscal 1999.
Document Citation
"Loophole Fix Moves Class-Action Securities Suits From State to Federal Courts." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac
Online Edition, cqal98-0000191041. Originally published in CQ Almanac 1998 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1999).
http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal98-0000191041 (accessed July 9, 2009).
Document ID: cqal98-0000191041
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal98-0000191041
© 1999, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
