7/9/09 4:23 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 1 of 2http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d109:HR04636:@@@D&summ2=m&|TOM:/bss/d109query.html|
The Library of Congress > THOMAS Home > Bills, Resolutions > Search Results
NEW SEARCH | HOME | HELP | ABOUT SUMMARIES
H.R.4636 
Title: To enact the technical and conforming amendments necessary to implement the Federal
Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005, and for other purposes. 
Sponsor: Rep Oxley, Michael G. [OH-4] (introduced 12/18/2005)      Cosponsors (None) 
Related Bills: H.R.1185 
Latest Major Action: Became Public Law No: 109-173 [GPO: Text, PDF]
SUMMARY AS OF: 
2/15/2006--Public Law.    (There are 2 other summaries)
(This measure has not been amended since it was introduced. The summary has been
expanded because action occurred on the measure.)
Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Conforming Amendments Act of 2005 - (Sec. 2) Amends the
Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDIA) to state that: (1) a government depositor is separate and
distinct from any other U.S. officer, employee, or agent; and (2) the deposits of a government
depositor shall be insured in an amount equal to a specified standard maximum deposit
insurance.
Revises guidelines for insurance of trust funds to state that such funds and certain bank deposit
financial assistance program funds shall be insured to the standard maximum deposit insurance
amount. (The current the insurance maximum is $100,000).
Establishes a fine for violations of signage requirements pertaining to the insurance logo for
insured depository institutions and insured credit unions.
Amends the International Banking Act of 1978 to replace the minimum deposit of $100,000 with
a standard maximum deposit insurance amount.
Makes conforming changes to the Federal Credit Union Act. Provides coverage for certain
employee benefit plan deposits. Directs the National Credit Union Administration Board to
provide pass-through share insurance for the deposits or shares of any employee benefit plan.
(Sec. 3) Makes conforming amendments relating to assessments and repeal of special rules
relating to minimum assessments and free deposit insurance.
Amends the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 to remove the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System from the requirement to consider certain
factors in determining the minimum requirements for lifeline accounts at insured depository
institutions. (Thus leaves the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) with the sole
responsibility to consider such factors in determining such minimum requirements.)
(Sec. 4) Defines the "designated reserve ratio" as the reserve ratio designated by the FDIC
Board of Directors.
(Sec. 5) Requires a report to Congress on refunds, dividends, and credits from the Deposit
Insurance Fund (DIF).
(Sec. 6) Directs the Comptroller General to study and report to Congress on: (1) the efficiency
and effectiveness of the administration of the prompt corrective action program by federal
banking agencies, including their effectiveness in identifying troubled depository institutions and
taking effective action with respect to them, and the degree of accuracy of the risk assessments
made by the FDIC; and (2) the appropriateness of the FDIC's organizational structure.
Requires the FDIC Board of Directors and the National Credit Union Administration Board
(NCUAB) each to study and report to Congress on the feasibility of: (1) establishing a voluntary
deposit insurance system for deposits in excess of the maximum amount of deposit insurance;
(2) increasing the limit on deposit insurance for deposits of municipalities and other units of
7/9/09 4:23 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 2 of 2http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d109:HR04636:@@@D&summ2=m&|TOM:/bss/d109query.html|
general local government; and (3) privatizing all deposit insurance at insured depository
institutions and insured credit unions.
Requires the FDIC to study and report to Congress on the feasibility of: (1) using alternatives to
estimated insured deposits in calculating the reserve ratio of the DIF and designating a reserve
ratio for it; and (2) the reserve methodology and loss accounting used by the FDIC between
January 1, 1992, and December 31, 2004, with respect to insured depository institutions in a
troubled condition.
Directs the Comptroller General to study and report to Congress on the potential impact on the
U.S. financial system of the implementation of the new Basel Capital Accord (Basel II) and the
proposed revisions to current reserve requirement regulations for non-Basel II banks.
(Sec. 7) Directs the FDIC to survey and report biannually to Congress on efforts by insured
depository institutions to bring individuals and families who have rarely, if ever, held a checking
account, a savings account, or other type of transaction or check cashing account at an insured
depository institution (the unbanked) into the conventional finance system.
(Sec. 8) Amends the FDIA to establish the DIF, to be available to the FDIC for use with respect
to insured depository institutions whose deposits are DIF-insured.
Prescribes guidelines for borrowing for the DIF from insured depository institutions and Federal
Home Loan Banks.
(Sec. 9) Makes technical and conforming amendments to the FDIA and the following Acts relating
to the merger of the BIF and SAIF to reflect the changes made by this Act: (1) Revised Statutes
of the United States; (2) the Federal Reserve Act; (3) the Federal Home Loan Bank Act; (4) the
Home Owners' Loan Act; (5) the National Housing Act; (6)the Financial Institutions Reform,
Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989; (7) the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act; and (8) the Bank
Holding Company Act of 1956.
THOMAS Home | Contact | Accessibility | Legal | FirstGov
