7/3/09 1:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal96-841-24598-1091911&type=hitlist&num=31
Stock Market and Financial
Services
2004 Stock Option Accountability
2001 SEC Law a Win for Wall Street
1999 Major Overhaul Enacted Of Rules
Governing the Financial Services
Industry
1998 Loophole Fix Moves Class-Action
Securities Suits From State to
Federal Courts
1998 Financial Services Overhaul Dies
in Senate, A Victim of Friendly
Fire
1997 Financial Services Overhaul Stalls
1996 Securities Regulation Provisions
1996 Financial Services Provisions
1996 Congress Streamlines Securities
Rules
1994 Other Securities-Related Bills
Considered in 1994
1994 Financial Services Trade Bill
Falters at Session's End
1993 Financial Services Bill Seeks To
Open Markets
1993 Bill Tightens Regulation of
Government Bond Market
1992 Government Securities Bill Is
Quashed
1991 Government Securities Bill
Considered
1990 Market Control Authority of the
Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) Increased
1990 Congress Passes Bills
Strengthening Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC)
1989 Securities Arbitration
1989 Market Reform Stalled
1988 Stock Market Regulation
1988 Insider-Trading Bill
1986 Securities Dealer Regulations
1985 Government Securities Firms
1982 Commodity Futures Trading Bill
Cleared
1980 Securities Investor Privacy
1977 Investor Protection
1975 Overhaul Of Securities Industry
Approved
1974 Rules Committee Blocks
Securities Bill
1974 Municipal Bonds Regulation
1973 Stock Exchange Membership
1973 Securities Transactions
1973 Securities Thefts
1973 Federal Financing Bank
1972 Securities Transactions
1972 Securities Industry
1971 Securities Thefts: Mafia Moves on
Wall Street
Financial Services Provisions
An article from CQ Almanac 1996
Document Outline
Savings Association Insurance Fund
Fair Credit Reporting Act
Environmental Liability
Regulatory Relief
The financial services package, enacted as part of the fiscal 1997 omnibus
appropriations bill (HR 3610 — PL 104 - 208), contained major provisions
to:
Savings Association Insurance Fund
SAIF recapitalization. Require the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(FDIC) to impose a one-time special assessment on SAIF-insured deposits to
bring the thrift fund to the 1.25 percent of insured deposits required under
existing law. (The FDIC set the assessment to reach the required “designated
reserve ratio” at 65.7 cents per $100 in deposits.
Institutions were to pay the assessment on SAIF-insured deposits held on
March 31, 1996; it was collected Nov. 27, 1996. The special assessment was
tax deductible, effective immediately. Prior law required amortization over five
years.
Oakar banks. Reduce the special assessment on so-called Oakar banks —
commercial banks that acquired thrift deposits or a thrift — by 20 percent.
Only banks whose deposits were insured by the BIF on June 30, 1995, were
eligible for this 20 percent “haircut.”
FICO bonds. Require banks to pay assessments on BIF-insured deposits to
finance a portion of the $780 million annual interest payment on Financing
Corporation (FICO) bonds issued during an earlier round of the thrift bailout.
These payments had been the responsibility of the SAIF.
The FICO assessments on banks (BIF-insured deposits) were one-fifth the
rate imposed on thrifts (SAIF-insured deposits) until  Dec. 31. 1999. The FDIC
estimated that banks would pay 1.3 cents per $100 in deposits for FICO, and
thrifts would pay 6.4 cents per $100.
Beginning Jan. 1, 2000, banks and thrifts were to share the FICO assessment
on a pro rata basis, approximately 2.4 cents per $ 100.
Deposit shifting. Require bank regulators to take actions to block thrifts and
banks and their holding companies from “facilitating or encouraging the
shifting” of SAIF-insured deposits to the BIF in order to evade higher SAIF
deposit insurance premiums. However, actions undertaken in the ordinary
course of business and not aimed at depositors of an affiliated bank or thrift
would not be affected.
BIF/SAIF merger. Require the BIF and SAIF to merge into a single deposit
insurance fund on Jan. 1, 1999, but only if no savings associations existed at
that time. The effect, was to block the BIF/SAIF merger until  Congress acted
separately to pass legislation to eliminate the thrift charter and force all thrifts
to convert to banks.
Treasury charter study. Require the Treasury Department to study whether
to eliminate separate bank and thrift charters and create a single common
charter for all insured depository institutions. Treasury was to report to
Congress by March 31, 1997.
Assessment refunds. Require the FDIC to refund balances in any deposit
 
7/3/09 1:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal96-841-24598-1091911&type=hitlist&num=31
1971 Securities Industry
1970 Securities Exemption
1970 Protection for Stockholders
1970 Mutual Funds: New Controls
After Four-Year Delay
1970 Congress Clears Securities
Investor Protection Bill
1969 Securities Hearings
1969 Mutual Funds
1968 Securities Disclosure
1968 Over-The-Counter Securities
1968 Institutional Investors Study
1967 Securities Disclosure
1967 Hearings Held on S.E.C. Bill to
Regulate Mutual Funds
1965 Securities Fees
1964 Controls Over Stock Issues and
Dealers Strengthened
1963 SEC Study Submitted; Senate
Approves Bill
1962 S.E.C. Activities
1955 Stock Market Study
1955 Government Securities
1954 Changes In SEC Law
Assessment refunds. Require the FDIC to refund balances in any deposit
insurance fund when the reserve ratio exceeded 1.25 percent, not to exceed
the amount paid in assessments during the previous semi-annual assessment
period. The FDIC was prohibited from setting insurance assessments that
would cause a fund to exceed the 1.25 percent reserve ratio.
Premium parity. Require that, through Jan. 1, 1999, assessments for BIF-
insured institutions not exceed those for SAIF-insured institutions that were of
comparable risk profiles.
Fair Credit Reporting Act
Update the 1971 Fair Credit Reporting Act, the federal law governing the
credit reporting industry. Generally, the new law balanced provisions to give
consumers new powers to correct errors in their credit reports with business-
sought provisions designed to make it easier to use credit information for
marketing purposes and for prescreened credit offers. The changes generally
took effect Sept, 30, 1997.
Prescreening and direct marketing. Expressly permit prescreened credit
offers. Prescreening took place when a lender, such as a credit card company,
established a set of criteria and received from a credit bureau a roster of
potential customers who met those criteria
The Fair Credit Reporting Act had not previously addressed the practice. The
Federal Trade Commission (FTC) allowed it, although under conditions that, some credit-grantors found too
restrictive; most importantly, any consumer sent a prescreened offer had to be offered the credit, even if it was
based on erroneous information
The bill provided greater flexibility than existing FTC interpretation, provided the lender made a “firm offer” of credit
to all those solicited — so long as the consumers had not opted out and requested their names be removed from all
prescreened lists.
But creditors could withdraw the offer of credit if information provided on an application did not meet additional
criteria, as well as if the information in the credit report was not verified.
The bill slightly loosened former restrictions on what type of infor-mation could be provided on a prescreened list.
Complete credit reports could not be provided, only the consumer's name and address, along with an “identifier” not
unique to the consumer that was used to verify the identity of the consumer and other information, provided it did
not identify a specific purchase or credit relationship or experience. (For example, whether they owned a home.)
Credit bureaus were required to set up a toll-free telephone number for consumers to call if they wished to be
excluded from prescreened lists. By Sept. 30, 1997, each credit bureau that sold prescreened lists was required to
publish an annual notice stating that fact and include the address and telephone number available to opt out of
prescreening.
Whenever a consumer was sent a solicitation derived from a prescreened list, the offer had to say that credit
information was used, the consumer met criteria for being offered credit or insurance, and information on how to opt
out of such solicitations in the future.
Affiliate sharing. Permit affiliated companies within a holding company or other corporation to share information
(including specific transactions and “experiences,” such as credit applications and reports) with each other without
falling under the Fair Credit Reporting Act. The FTC had interpreted prior law to bar such “affiliate sharing” of credit
information.
To qualify, the affiliates had to be “related by common ownership or affiliated by corporate control.” But consumers
were to be notified in advance that their credit and transaction information might be shared among affiliates and
given an opportunity to direct that the information not be shared.
This change promised to greatly accelerate the use of credit and transaction information for “cross-marketing”
purposes.
The federal affiliate-sharing standard pre-empted state laws through Jan. 1, 2004.
Consumer disclosures. Require credit bureaus to provide greater disclosure to consumers of information contained in
credit reports and require that such disclosures be made in writing.
When use of a consumer's credit report resulted in an “adverse action,” such as being denied credit, the consumer
was to be notified and given the address and toll-free telephone number of the credit bureau that supplied the
report.
The term “adverse action” was broadened to include areassuch as denial of insurance, reducing insurance coverage
7/3/09 1:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal96-841-24598-1091911&type=hitlist&num=31
The term “adverse action” was broadened to include areassuch as denial of insurance, reducing insurance coverage
or canceling an insurance policy; denying employment or taking any unfavorable action such as denying a promotion
to an existing employee; and other “business transactions,” such as an apartment rental or automobile lease.
Consumers denied credit were entitled to a summary of their rights under the act, including the right to a free copy
of their credit report and to dispute material contained in it. Information about which federal agencies to contact to
report violations also had to be provided. Credit bureaus had to supply consumers with the same data they had
provided to companies seeking credit information. They also had to tell consumers when their names had been
supplied for prescreening.
Credit bureaus could no longer bar lenders or other users of credit reports from showing them to consumers if the
report had led to an adverse action against the consumer, such as being denied a loan.
Disputed information. Provide strengthened rights to consumers who disputed the accuracy of information in their
credit reports. Credit bureaus were required to reinvestigate within 30 calendar days information that a consumer said
was inaccurate. The information had to be deleted if it was inaccurate or could not be confirmed. Credit bureaus were
required to notify furnishers of credit information within five days of a consumer's dispute.
If disputed information was reinserted, the consumer was to be notified. Credit bureaus and credit furnishers were
required to establish procedures such as computer upgrades to ensure that erroneous information was not
reinserted.
Credit bureaus that bought and resold credit reports were required to take steps to ensure that resold reports were
used only for permissible purposes. They had to verify the identity of the user of the report and certify the purpose
for which the report was obtained and also certify that it would not be used for any other purpose.
Contents of reports. Clarify and tighten requirements about certain information contained in credit reports, In cases of
bankruptcy, a consumer's credit report had to detail what type of bankruptcy (such as Chapter 7 vs. Chapter 13).
Existing restrictions on obsolete information — information that was 7 years old — were tightened. For example,
when an account was 180 days past due, that information could be reported for 7 years and then was considered
obsolete and could no longer be reported. Previously, that 7-year window could be reopened if the debt were
charged off or placed with a collection agency, or if the consumer made some effort to repay the debt.
As under prior law, the 7-year obsolescence period was waived in cases in which consumers applied for large
amounts of credit or for jobs with a certain salary, but those limits were raised to $150,000 for non-real estate credit
and life insurance and, in cases of applications for jobs, salaries of up to $75,000 a year.
If a consumer closed an account voluntarily, that had to be noted in the credit report. Finally, if an item was
disputed by a consumer, that had to be disclosed in the credit report
Credit information furnishers. Impose new responsibilities on banks, retailers and other companies that furnished
information to credit bureaus. The bill barred credit information furnishers from supplying information to credit reporting
agencies that it “knows or consciously avoids knowing” was inaccurate. Unlike other elements of the act, consumers
could not sue credit furnishers for violating the law; enforcement of this provision was the responsibility of the FTC,
banking regulators and the states.
If a credit furnisher discovered that it had furnished incomplete or inaccurate information to a credit bureau, it was to
promptly notify the credit bureau and make sure that the erroneous information was not resupplied.
Consumers could dispute information provided by credit information furnishers, and if they notified the furnisher, the
furnisher could not supply the information to a credit bureau unless it told the credit bureau that the information was
in dispute.
Credit bureaus were required to inform furnishers of credit information within five business days that a consumer
disputed the information; the furnisher had to investigate the dispute and report the results to both the credit bureau
and the consumer. If such disputed information was, in fact, inaccurate, the furnisher had to notify all credit bureaus
to which the information was supplied.
When a consumer closed a bank or credit account, the lender was required to report this to credit bureaus; any
credit furnisher that provided information about a delinquent account was also required to provide the date of
delinquency.
Charges for credit reports. Require credit bureaus to make credit reports available to consumers for a fee not to
exceed $8; this was to be adjusted for inflation.
The bill also made it somewhat easier for consumers to obtain a free copy of their credit report. It provided that they
could obtain free copies after use of their report resulted in an “adverse action,” such as denying or canceling an
insurance policy, any adverse action by an employer, as well as being refused other business transactions such as
a checking account or lease. Previously, a free copy only had to be provided after an applicant was denied credit.
The bill also required that annual free reports be provided upon request to unemployed persons, welfare recipients
and those who believed their reports contained inaccurate information due to fraud.
7/3/09 1:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal96-841-24598-1091911&type=hitlist&num=31
Use of credit reports by employers. Require employers who used credit reports in employment decisions, such as
hiring job applicants or retaining existing employees, to notify all applicants or employees. Before a credit bureau could
release a credit report for employment purposes, the applicant or employee had to authorize the release.
Employers could require that information be released as a condition of employment, but when taking any “adverse
action” against an applicant or employee, they had to provide a copy of the credit report to the individual and a
notice of his or her rights under the act.
Unauthorized use of credit reports. Make it illegal for those who obtained a credit report to use it for purposes not
permitted by the act. Users of reports were required to certify that the report would be used for permitted activities such
as evaluating credit, insurance and rental applications, by employers or for court-approved investigations.
The intent was to curb use of credit reports by private investigators, political campaigns and others by making them
liable to lawsuits and federal and state enforcement actions.
Credit repair organizations. Impose new restrictions on the activities of “credit repair” firms, which were paid to clear
out negative information from consumers’ credit reports.
Credit repair companies were barred from requiring payment in advance for their services, and they were prohibited
from making misleading statements to consumers, credit bureaus and lenders.
Credit repair firms were required to disclose in writing consumers’ rights under the law to deal with credit bureaus
directly, noting that credit repair companies did not have powers greater than a consumer to delete accurate and
verifiable information.
Consumers had the right to rescind a contract with a credit repair organization within three business days.
Consumers could sue for any violation of the new law; the FTC and the states could also enforce the act and levy
civil fines.
Credit bureaus could disregard consumer challenges that they considered, in good faith, to be frivolous. But they
had to notify the consumer in writing and explain why.
Nonprofit organizations, insured depository institutions and lenders that were helping consumers restructure their
debt were not included in the definition of credit repair organization and were not subject to the new restrictions.
This title was effective March 30, 1997.
Medical information. Bar credit reporting agencies from releasing medical information without a consumer's permission.
Pre-emption of state law. Pre-empt state credit reporting laws in several areas, replacing them with a uniform federal
statute through Jan. 1, 2004.
Federal pre-emption applied to: use of credit reports for prescreened offers of credit or insurance; time limits on
reporting obsolete information (existing state laws grandfathered); time limits for reinvestigation (state laws were
grandfathered); credit bureau responsibilities after taking an adverse action against a consumer; responsibilities
placed on furnishers of credit information; and the text of the summary of rights that had to be provided to
consumers.
After Jan. 1, 2004, states could enact laws to provide consumer protections beyond those in the federal statute,
Enforcement. Permit individuals to sue anyone for violations of the act, although credit furnishers were exempt.
Minimum damages of $100 to $1,000 were authorized for “willful non-compliance.” Individuals who obtained credit
reports under false pretenses or knowingly for an impermissible purpose would be liable for at least $1,000. Plaintiffs
who filed lawsuits in bad faith or to harass the defendant could be found liable for the defendant's legal fees.
Banking agencies were given authority to enforce compliance with the act by insured banks and thrifts, though only
after a complaint was filed or if they otherwise had knowledge of violations.
The FTC was given new authority to impose fines of up to $2,500 per violation for a “knowing violation which
constitutes a pattern or practice of violations” of the act. Prior law permitted FTC fines only for violation of agency
orders.
States were permitted to enforce the act after notifying the FTC or the appropriate hanking agency. They could
bring suit in behalf of their residents, provided a federal enforcement action was not in progress; a ceiling of $1,000
per violation applied. Unlike individuals, states could sue furnishers of credit information for supplying inaccurate
information to credit bureaus, but only for violating injunctions.
Environmental Liability
Lender environmental liability. Limit the liability of banks, other lenders and fiduciaries under the 1980 superfund law
and the storage tank provisions of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, provided they played no role in causing environmental
7/3/09 1:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal96-841-24598-1091911&type=hitlist&num=31
and the storage tank provisions of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, provided they played no role in causing environmental
problems on properties obtained through foreclosure.
The superfund law contained a “safe harbor” for lenders who foreclosed on contaminated properties, but recent
court decisions had held lenders liable for cleanup costs on foreclosed properties because of their ability to influence
management of such properties.
The bill clarified that lenders were not liable unless they participated in management of contaminated property. Also,
lenders who did not participate in management and acquired a property through foreclosure were not liable if they
disposed of it properly or prepared it for sale at the earliest practicable time on commercially reasonable terms.
The bill limited liability for fiduciaries to the assets held in their fiduciary capacity; clarified the law so that several
fiduciary actions did not create liability; and reinstated a 1992 Environmental Protection Agency rule that set forth
the safe harbor for lenders.
Regulatory Relief
RESPA/Truth-in-Lending. Make a number of changes to the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA) and the
Truth-in-Lending Act. Truth-in-Lending required lenders to provide specific and accurate disclosures of the terms of
credit extended to consumers; RESPA required lenders to provide estimates of settlement costs at the time of closing.
The Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), which enforced the Truth-in-Lending Act, and the
Federal Reserve, which enforced RESPA, were required by March 31, 1997, to simplify and improve the two laws’
disclosure requirements and provide a single format for these disclosures.
The bill delayed implementation of a pending HUD anti-kickback rule under RESPA until July 31, 1997. The rule
placed strict limits on employer compensation of employees who made mortgage referrals to the employer's
affiliates.
The bill authorized the Federal Reserve to exempt additional credit transactions from Truth-in-Lending disclosure
requirements, provided that the disclosures offered “no meaningful benefit to consumers” or involved wealthy
individuals who waived the disclosure in writing.
The bill eased regulations on lenders by requiring that they provide a statement to borrowers that the loan could be
sold; prior law required that lenders inform borrowers of the percentage of loans made over three prior years that
had been sold.
The law exempted most business loans from RESPA
It also permitted lenders under Truth-in-Lending to provide a less detailed disclosure of potential payment
fluctuations for adjustablerate mortgages.
Truth-in-Savings. Repeal civil liability for violations of the Truth-in-Savings Act, as of Sept. 30. 2001. The law required
clear and accurate disclosures of fees and interest rates on deposits.
Home Mortgage Disclosure Act. Expand the exemption for depository institutions under the 1975 Home Mortgage
Disclosure Act (HMDA).
That act required thrifts, banks and other mortgage lenders to report data on the geographic and demographic
characteristics of their lending patterns, permitting regulators to track discriminatory lending practices. Prior law
exempted depository institutions with less than $10 million in assets from the law. Under HR 3610, the exemption
would be adjusted annually for inflation, including a one-time increase to about $28 million in assets.
Self testing. Encourage lenders to “self test” for compliance with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing
Act by barring the results of such rests from being used in agency enforcement actions or in civil lawsuits, as permitted
under prior law. The Federal Reserve Board and HUD were directed to establish rules governing self testing. Self tests
were protected only if they met the new standards and if the lender took steps to correct any discriminatory practices it
found.
Non-banking activities. Create a new expedited procedure to allow well-capitalized and well-managed bank holding
companies to engage in non-banking activities, provided the transaction was below a certain size. Prior law required
that bank holding companies wait 60 to 90 days for Federal Reserve Board approval before engaging in routine non-
banking activities or acquiring a non-banking company.
Under the bill, qualified banking companies were permitted to engage in any activity permitted under Federal
Reserve Regulation Y without prior notice; they had to notify the Fed within 10 days. For non-Regulation Y
activities, or for acquisitions of non-banking companies, a holding company had to inform the Fed 12 days before
beginning the activity.
Bank holding companies/thrift ownership. Eliminate a requirement that bank holding companies that owned thrifts
also be regulated as savings and loan holding companies, which subjected them to different and sometimes conflicting
rules.
7/3/09 1:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal96-841-24598-1091911&type=hitlist&num=31
The bill required the Federal Reserve and the Office of Thrift Supervision to coordinate regulation of such holding
companies as well as acquisition of thrifts by bank holding companies.
Consumer leasing. Require the Federal Reserve Board to issue regulations governing consumer leases, with the intent
of providing consumers with simplified, meaningful disclosures of the terms of a lease. The Fed also was to issue model
disclosure forms, and any lessor who used such forms would be be deemed in compliance with the law's disclosure
requirements.
Rules governing consumer lease advertisements were modified to require clear and conspicuous disclosure of the
fact that the advertised transaction was a lease; the total number of payments required at or before consummation
of the lease; any security deposit requirement; the number and timing of payments; and the possibility of additional
end-of-lease charges.
The changes were intended to make the Consumer Leasing Act consistent with other consumer laws such as the
Truth-in-Lending Act.
Debt collection. Modify the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act to require that debt collectors inform consumers only in
their initial communication that the collector was trying to collect a debt Prior law-required disclosure in all
communications — whether with the debtor or any other individual contacted regarding the debt. However, in all
communications with the debtor, the collector was required disclose that the communication was from a debt collector.
Stored value cards. Block the Federal Reserve from finalizing proposed rules that would require some sophisticated
“stored value” cards to be regulated under the Electronic Funds Transfer Act (EFTA). The Fed was required to conduct a
study and report to Congress by March 30, 1997, whether it would be feasible to apply some of the provisions of the
EFTA to stored value cards, while exempting others.
“Retirement CD.” Make the so-called retirement certificate of deposit — a controversial tax-deferred annuity product
offered by a small bank in Montana — ineligible for deposit insurance.
GSE-sponsored credit unions. Prohibit government-sponsored enterprises such as the Farm Credit System from
sponsoring credit unions.
ATMs/branch closings. Permit banks and thrifts to remove automated teller machines (ATMs) without having to notify
customers 90 days in advance as required for branch closings.
The bill also permitted the relocation of a branch within the same neighborhood without triggering the 90-day notice
requirement It clarified that ATMs were not a branch for purposes of federal interstate branching laws and therefore
were not subject to application requirements or geographic restrictions that applied to branching activities.
Per branch capital. Eliminate the obsolete requirement that national and state member banks maintain capital for their
branches as if each branch were a separately chartered bank.
Bank fees study. Require the annual Federal Reserve study of bank fees to describe trends in bank fees in each state,
metropolitan area and nationally; the study also had to highlight trends in the availability of banking services related to
the size of the institution and whether it was a multistate institution.
Management interlocks. Ease restrictions on officers and directors of banks and thrifts from participating in the
management of an unaffiliated institution. Asset thresholds that permitted smaller banks and thrifts to have such
“management interlocks” were raised. Grand-fathered interlocks were continued indefinitely, and bank regulators were
given greater latitude to waive the restrictions.
Foreign banks. Ease requirements on foreign banks trying to open U.S. offices or branches.
Prior law permitted the Federal Reserve — which regulated foreign banks operating in the United States — to
terminate foreign bank operations if it found that the institution was not subject to rigorous worldwide supervision.
Under the new law, those operations could not be terminated if the host country was preparing a supervisory
framework or making “demonstrable progress” toward doing so. The Fed could approve applications for new offices
so long as the home country was taking such steps toward establishing a supervisory framework.
The Fed also was required to act on applications from foreign banks within 180 days (a 180-day extension was
allowed). The requirement that foreign banks pay examination fees was repealed as long as state member banks
did not have to pay such fees.
Non-bank banks. Lift an annual 7 percent growth cap on grandfa-thered “non-bank banks,” which were otherwise
banned in 1987. This would permit the diversified financial services firms that owned them to make greater use of them.
Qualified thrift investments. Make it easier for thrifts to meet the “qualified thrift lender” test, which required that 65
percent of a thrift's assets be qualified thrift investments (generally real estate-related assets) by counting small
business, credit card and student lending toward the 65 percent cap. Other personal, family and household loans up to
20 percent of the thrift's assets could be used to meet the test, dropping a 10 percent restriction.
7/3/09 1:36 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal96-841-24598-1091911&type=hitlist&num=31
Edge Act corporations. Permit the Federal Reserve to increase the investment by banks in Edge Act and Agreement
corporations from 10 percent to 20 percent. Such subsidiaries were offshore entities that had powers similar to foreign
branches of U.S. banks and operated in the United States.
Independent auditor requirements. Eliminate a requirement that an independent auditor attest whether a financial
institution was within FDIC regulations on insider lending and dividend limits. Also, under limited circumstances
regulators could waive a requirement that all members of an institution's independent audit committee be unaffiliated
with the institution, provided that outside directors formed a majority of the committee.
FDIC board of directors. Require at least one member of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation board of directors
to have experience supervising state banks.
Bank director residency requirements. Permit the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) to waive rules
requiring that a majority of a national bank's directors live in the bank's home state or within 100 miles of an office of the
bank.
Small bank examinations. Permit bank and thrift regulators to examine more small banks and thrifts every 18 months,
instead of annually. Prior law permitted institutions with $175 million or less in assets that received good but not
excellent supervisory ratings to receive on-site examinations every 18 months. The new law raised that cap to $250
million.
Agency reports. Eliminate a requirement that the Federal Reserve collect data each year on the availability of credit to
small farms and small and minority-owned businesses. The bill repealed a requirement that bank regulators report
annually to Congress on enforcement actions as well as on troubled foreign loans held by U.S. banks.
Regulatory review. Require regulators to review all banking regulations every 10 years and eliminate “outdated or
otherwise unnecessary” rules.
Insider lending. Permit the Fed under certain conditions to allow preferential “insider loans” to officers and directors of
affiliates, provided the insider did not have a significant management role at the depository institution. The affiliate could
not be controlled by another company or exceed 10 percent of holding company assets.
Document Citation
"Financial Services Provisions." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal96-841-24598-1091911.
Originally published in CQ Almanac 1996 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1997).
http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal96-841-24598-1091911 (accessed July 3, 2009).
Document ID: cqal96-841-24598-1091911
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal96-841-24598-1091911
© 1997, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
