7/3/09 12:16 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal90-1113148&type=hitlist&num=2
Crime
2004 Lawmakers Take Aim at ID Theft
2000 Lawmakers Make Changes To
Laws Governing Seizure Of Assets
in Criminal Cases
1997 Witness Protection
1996 Crime Prevention Legislation
Takes Aim At Multiple Targets,
Including Drugs, Fraud, and
Crimes Against Children and the
Elderly
1995 Tough Talk, Little Progress on
GOP's Crime Agenda
1995 Rejection of Clinton Crime Policy
Prompts Veto of Appropriations
Bill for Commerce, Justice and
State Departments
1994 Presidential Statement: Clinton
Says Vote on Crime Bill 'Failed
the American People'
1994 Lawmakers Enact $30.2 Billion
Anti-Crime Bill
1994 Crime Bill Provisions
1993 Senate OKs Omnibus Anti-Crime
Bill
1992 No Compromise Forged on Crime
Bill
1992 Money-Laundering Bill Finally
Gets Through
1991 Money Laundering Bill Still a
Non-Starter
1991 Anti-Crime Bill Falls Victim to
Partisanship
1990 Bush Signs Stripped-Down Crime
Bill
1989 Presidential Address: Bush Anti-
Crime Package Urges Higher
Spending
1989 Crime Bills Move Ahead With
Partisan Push
1989 Attorneys’ Fee Seizure
1985 Odometer Fraud
1985 Bank Bribery
1984 Presidential Veto Message:
Reagan Vetoes Armed Career
Criminals Bill
1984 Major Crime Package Cleared by
Congress
1983 Insanity Defense Revisions
1983 Credit Card Fraud
1983 Anti-Crime Package Stalls in
Senate Again
1983 Anti-Crime Grant Program
1982 Threats to Public Officials
1982 Reagan Vetoes Package of Anti-
Crime Bills
1982 Presidential Veto Message:
Reagan Vetoes Anti-Crime Bill
1982 Presidential Statement: Reagan
on Crime Legislation
Boxscore
Legislation: Crime Control Act of 1990,
PL 101 – 647 (3 3266).
Major action: Signed, Nov. 29. Passed
by Senate, Oct. 27; by House, 313–1, Oct.
27. HR 5269 passed by House, 368–55,
Oct. 5; S 1970 passed by Senate, 94–6,
July 11.
Reports: Judiciary (H Rept 101 –681,
Part I); Ways and Means (Part II).
Bush Signs Stripped-Down Crime Bill
An article from CQ Almanac 1990
Document Outline
Background
Senate Floor Action
House Committee Action
House Floor Action
Conference/Final Action
Features
Time pressures and irreconcilable differences over some of the most
emotional issues in criminal justice combined at the end of the 101st
Congress to dilute a sweeping election-year anticrime package.
With the clock running out, House-Senate conferees on the legislation (HR
5269, S 1970) on Oct. 26 abandoned efforts to reach agreement on the most
controversial provisions before them — a broadened federal death penalty,
limits on legal challenges by condemned prisoners, and restrictions on
semiautomatic assault-type weapons.
Also gone from the final
version were provisions
sought by the Bush
administration that would
have allowed courts to
consider evidence gathered
with flawed warrants, to
shorten delays in carrying
out executions and to impose
tougher penalties for illegal
firearm use.
Instead, both chambers
approved a stripped-down
bill (S 3266) on Oct. 27 that
included only proposals
acceptable to all. These
involved increased penalties
for child abuse; prison alternatives, such as house arrest; more funding for
local law enforcement and increased authorizations for federal law
enforcement agencies such as the FBI.
In a response to the thrift crisis, the measure also set up in the Justice
Department an office of special counsel for financial institutions fraud, made it
easier for federal banking agencies and the Justice Department to seize the
assets of defendants in such cases, and limited defendants' ability to use
bankruptcy to avoid civil or criminal penalties.
The Senate approved the bill by voice vote; the House passed it 313–1,
clearing the measure for the president. (House vote 534, p. 168-H; highlights
of provisions, p. 499)
President Bush signed the bill Nov. 29, while expressing “deep
disappointment over many provisions noticeably absent from the legislation.”
But, he said, “while this is not the crime bill I asked Congress to pass, I am
pleased with the tools [it] provides for fighting financial institutions fraud.”
When Bush unveiled his big anticrime package in May 1989, it centered on
the first broad expansion of the federal death penalty since the Supreme
 
7/3/09 12:16 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal90-1113148&type=hitlist&num=2
on Crime Legislation
1982 Mail Fraud Bill Fails to Clear
1982 Insanity Defense Unchanged
1982 Extradition Revision Dies
1982 Criminal Code Revision Dies
1982 Crimes Against Officials
1982 Anti-Arson Legislation
1981 Bail Revision Measure
1981 Anti-Crime Aid to States
1980 Pretrial Bail Program
1980 Criminal Code Bills Die in Both
Chambers
1979 Senate Judiciary Reports
Criminal Code Bill
1979 Computer Fraud
1978 Senate-Passed Criminal Code
Dies in House
1977 Criminal Code Revision
1975 Subcommittee Approves Criminal
Law Reform
1975 Presidential Statement: Ford's
Message on Crime Control
1975 Congress Revises Rules of
Criminal Procedure
1973 Pre-Trial Diversion
1973 Criminal Law Review
1973 Crime Control Amendments
1972 Pre-Trial Rehabilitation
1972 House Crime Committee
1972 Habeas Corpus
1972 Federal Criminal Law Revision
1971 Speedy Trials
1971 Presidential Statement to
Congress: Nixon Urges Sharing
Revenue for Crime-Fighting
1971 Penal Reform
1971 Criminal Laws Reform
1970 Public Defender System
1969 Wiretapping Decisions Highlight
Criminal Law Rulings
1969 Public Defenders
1968 Message to Congress: Johnson's
Message on Crime
1968 Major Crime Rulings
1968 Major Anticrime Bills Approved as
Violence Increases
1968 Congress Passes Extensive
Anticrime Legislation
1967 Presidential Address: Johnson on
'Law and Order in America'
1967 Message to Congress: Johnson's
on Crime
1967 Johnson's War Against Crime
1967 House Rewrites and Passes Safe
Streets Bill
1967 Evidence Suppression
1967 Criminal Investigations
1966 Message to Congress: Johnson on
Crime and Law Enforcement
1966 Further Steps Taken on Anticrime
Legislation
1965 Senate Eases Bail System For
Accused Persons
1965 Message to Congress: Johnson's
March 8 Message on Crime
1965 Anticrime Program Presented to
Congress
1964 Total Arrests by Age Groups,
1963
1964 Major Offenses in 1963, Rate and
Rank of 191 U.S. Cities
1963 Letter on Public Defenders
the first broad expansion of the federal death penalty since the Supreme
Court reinstated capital punishment in 1976.
In the Senate, controversial provisions dealing with the death penalty, habeas
corpus, gun controls and the exclusionary rule were rolled into a separate bill
(S 1970) after they almost derailed antidrug legislation in 1989. (1989
Almanac, pp. 259, 260)
When senators took up the issues in May 1990, a surprise vote for
restrictions on assault-style weapons almost sank the bill. But surviving a
threatened filibuster, the bill was passed July 11.
On the House side, the Democratic leadership for months resisted pressure
for a crime bill from Bush, GOP members and Democratic moderates. The
Judiciary Committee approved a bill July 23, but its safeguards for
defendants' rights drew a Bush veto threat. Most were stripped out during
floor consideration, and the bill passed by the House on Oct. 5 was far
tougher on criminals than the Judiciary Committee version.
The House bill contained a “racial justice” clause, which would have allowed
defendants to get out of a death sentence if they could prove, initially with
statistics of racial imbalances, that it was imposed because of racial bias. The
House conferees would not give up on that provision, which the Senate had
rejected. Senate conferees would not relinquish gun control.
Conferees resolved the impasse by dumping the controversial provisions
altogether. With little time left, Re-publican critics of the outcome could do
nothing but fume. The bill cleared both chambers on the last full day of its
1990 session, and Bush used the Nov. 29 bill signing ceremony to urge
Congress to “implement the remainder of the comprehensive crime package”
in 1991.
Gun control proponents also planned to try again in 1991 after a year in
which their efforts to enact a ban on assault weapons and a waiting period
for handgun purchases progressed but fell short of enactment. (Gun control,
p. 500)
Background
Since 1982, Congress cleared an anticrime or antidrug bill every two years,
typically in the waning days of the session right before the final campaign
swing. (1988 Almanac, p. 85; 1986 Almanac, p. 92; 1984 Almanac, p. 215;
1982 Almanac, p. 419)
Lawmakers broke the biennial rhythm in 1989 by acting on a big antidrug
package in a non-election year. But to ensure speedy passage of that
measure. Senate leaders in September agreed to peel off controversial
anticrime provisions and bundle them for later consideration.
The unanimous-consent agreement, largely a concession to Republicans,
called for the Senate to consider a broadened federal death penalty, firearms
regulation, new limits on habeas corpus appeals, exceptions to the
exclusionary rule barring use of illegally seized evidence, a Justice
Department reorganization and proposals to combat international money
laundering.
Debate on the package had been postponed three times since September
1989 because of the crush of other business. First it was to be brought up
before the 1989 adjournment. Leaders in both parties agreed in November to
postpone consideration until February 1990. Then, the package was
rescheduled for April. Next, it was rescheduled for before the Memorial Day
1990 recess.
On the Senate calendar were S 1970, a bill introduced by Senate Judiciary
Committee Chairman Joseph R. Biden Jr., D-Del., that covered items in the
unanimous-consent agreement, and S 1971, an alternative offered by Strom
Thurmond, S.C., ranking Republican on the Judiciary Committee.
Bush, who urged adoption of a number of the proposals already before the
Senate, sent a new package of antidrug and anticrime proposals to Congress
on May 16, 1990.
Included were provisions to stiffen criminal and civil asset-forfeiture laws and
7/3/09 12:16 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal90-1113148&type=hitlist&num=2
1963 Letter on Public Defenders
Legislation
1954 Sabotage, Espionage
1954 Loss Of Nationality
1953 Witness Immunity
1952 D.C. Crime Probe
1952 Crimes In Planes
1951 D.C. Crime Bill
Alcohol and Alcoholism
Corporate Fraud
Counterterrorism and Domestic
Intelligence
Death Penalty
Federal Antiracketeering Law
Gun Control and the Second Amendment
Hate Crimes and Crimes against Religion
Juveniles in the Criminal Justice System
Prisoners and Corrections
Sentencing
Terrorism: Foreign
Victims of Crime
Violence Against Women and Children
Included were provisions to stiffen criminal and civil asset-forfeiture laws and
to permit the Immigration and Naturalization Service to summarily deport
aliens who were in the United States legally if they were convicted of drug-
related crimes or crimes involving the use or threat of physical force.
Political Currents
Republicans repeatedly used the crime issue as a club against Democrats
since Richard M. Nixon made law and order a major theme of his 1968
presidential campaign.
The potency of that weapon was demonstrated again in 1988 when
Democratic presidential nominee Michael S. Dukakis failed to counter the
impact of Bush campaign commercials that in effect blamed the
Massachusetts governor for the rampage of a murderer-rapist furloughed from
the state's penitentiary, Willie Horton. Democrats' efforts to point out that the
Massachusetts furlough program had originated under a Republican governor
did little to counteract the powerful television image of prisoners' appearing to
be let out of prison through a revolving door.
Democrats were still coping with the fallout from the 1988 campaign in 1990.
In the next round of anticrime legislation, Democrats hoped to seize the
initiative and “de-Dukakisize” the issue, as one key Democratic aide said.
Biden wanted to ensure that any Senate legislation was written largely by
Democrats and that it would be seen as a tough, bold proposal. He rejected
the notion that Democrats had to be defensive about their stance on crime
issues, saying they were the ones who had pushed for more money for law enforcement.
But he acknowledged that, figuratively speaking, “one of my objectives, quite frankly, is to lock Willie Horton up in
jail.”
But while the debate represented an opportunity for Democrats, it was also a minefield.
Some of them opposed some of the Republican proposals, such as a broad federal death penalty and a limit on the
appeals of prisoners on death row, leaving them potentially vulnerable to charges that they were soft on crime.
As a party, the GOP generally spoke with one voice for punishment over rehabilitation, harsher and harsher
sentences and no gun control. In control of the White House for all but four years since Nixon was first inaugurated,
Republicans had a valuable platform on crime and drugs.
Don Nickles, R-Okla., chairman of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, said that votes on the death
penalty and other crime issues would help Republican candidates. “It's not necessarily that these issues are for
political purpose,” he explained, “but politically they fall to our advantage.”
Nixon broke ground in 1968 with his use of television commercials that capitalized on the public's fear of crime.
Despite years of imitation, the issue continued to resonate with voters and to be embraced by politicians.
The Associated Press, which in April reported the pervasiveness of the capital punishment issue in the year's
gubernatorial races, quoted Democratic consultant Frank Greer as saying, “The death penalty has become a sort of
simplistic litmus test or symbolic test of whether you're tough on crime.”
Democratic campaign strategists insisted that most party incumbents were not defensive on crime because their
positions were well-known and accepted by constituents. John B. Breaux, D-La., chairman of the Democratic
Senatorial Campaign Committee, said the crime issue “is not a party concern at all.”
And Biden argued that the stereotype of Democrats as permissive toward criminals did not hold up when placed
next to Democratic action on anticrime and antidrug bills in recent years.
He pointed out that Democrats in 1989 more than doubled the funds sought by Bush for his antidrug program.
Emergency antidrug funds added to the fiscal 1990 Transportation appropriations bill (HR 3015 — PL 101 –164)
brought total federal antidrug spending for the year to $ 8.8 billion, up from $ 5.7 billion the year before and about $
900 million more than Bush had requested. (1989 Almanac, p. 749)
Death Penalty, Racial Bias
Complicating the capital punishment debate was a civil rights dispute.
The death-penalty provisions in S 1970 were drawn from a bill (S 32) ordered reported Oct. 17, 1989, by the
Judiciary Committee. They would have authorized capital punishment for 30 federal crimes, primarily murder,
espionage and treason. (1989 Almanac, p. 260)
But to the dismay of Thurmond, the sponsor of S 32, the committee adopted an amendment by Edward M. Kennedy,
D-Mass., that would have prohibited the death sentence in state and federal cases if a defendant could prove with
statistical or other evidence that his race, or that of the victim, played a role in sentencing.
7/3/09 12:16 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal90-1113148&type=hitlist&num=2
Kennedy asserted that the death penalty was applied in a way that discriminated against blacks. Thurmond
countered that studies were inconclusive and that juries judged each defendant individually.
Thurmond also said Kennedy was trying to undermine capital punishment with rules that would force prosecutors to
spend their time developing race-based statistical evidence to prove that the race of the defendant or victim was
incidental to the sentence sought.
GOP senators wanted to strip the Kennedy amendment from the bill.
In the previous two years, the Senate had approved two bills to authorize the death penalty for particular offenses.
On Oct. 26, 1989, it passed a measure (S 1798) to provide the death penalty for terrorists who murdered U.S.
citizens abroad. The vote was 79–20. (Senate 1989 vote 275, 1989 Almanac, p. 51-S)
In 1988, the Senate authorized the death penalty for socalled drug kingpins by a vote of 65–29, and the measure (S
2455) became part of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988 (HR 5210 — PL 100–690). (Drug bill: death-penalty
provisions, 1988 Almanac, p. 91)
In floor action on the 1988 legislation, senators rejected a “racial justice” amendment similar to that which Kennedy
added to the 1990 bill. But this time, the provision was in the legislation before the Senate, and the burden would
be on its opponents to get it out.
Habeas Corpus Revisions
Another controversial section of the crime legislation was aimed at limiting both the number and timing of challenges
that defendants sentenced to death could make in the federal courts after exhausting their state appeals.
A 1989 report by a judicial committee headed by retired Supreme Court Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr. found that the
average time between conviction and execution in capital cases was more than eight years. The delay stemmed
from court backlogs and the numerous chances inmates had to challenge their death sentences at the state and
federal level. (Habeas corpus, this page)
Under existing law, inmates on state death rows first had to challenge their convictions in state courts before
beginning collateral attacks on their convictions by seeking a writ of habeas corpus from federal district courts.
Both S 1970 and S 1971 would have limited the number of habeas corpus petitions that could be filed in federal
court by a person convicted under state law, and both would have required a prisoner to petition for habeas corpus
relief within one year of exhausting his state appeals.
The Republicans' S 1971 went much further than the Democratic-sponsored S 1970 by barring a defendant's federal
court appeal unless he could prove that he did not have a “full and fair” adjudication in state court.
While states that allowed capital punishment were frustrated by the length of time it could take for a murderer to be
executed, some senators feared that streamlining the process could lead to judicial errors.
Biden's proposal would have allowed a prisoner to file a second habeas application in federal court in extraordinary
cases in which there might be a “miscarriage of justice.” His plan, embodied in S 1970, would have applied only to
capital cases and would have required states to guarantee prisoners qualified counsel during their appeals.
S 1971 would have more extensively rewritten habeas corpus law for all federal and state offenses and would not
have required the state to provide free counsel.
Slower Pace in the House
In the House, several proposals were the subject of Judiciary subcommittee hearings, but the Judiciary Committee
did not hasten to report out an omnibus measure. The Crime Subcommittee on March 21 approved one bill (HR
4225) that would have banned assault-style firearms.
The bill sought to apply to domestic weapons the same restrictions that the Bush administration had imposed on
foreign-made semiautomatics. It would have banned possession and sale of any U.S.-made semiautomatic weapons
that did not have a sporting purpose, as determined by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms.
The legislation would not have affected handguns and would not have barred any semiautomatics someone already
owned.
“That is more like the left-wing concept of how you fight crime,” said Rep. Robert S. Walker, R-Pa., one of the most
vocal critics of House inaction on law enforcement proposals.
In April, Walker tried to engineer defeat of a rule for debate on an antitrust measure so that the Rules Committee
could be instructed to make in order an amendment incorporating Bush's anticrime proposals. The move failed, but
it did send a warning shot across the Democratic bow.
House Judiciary Chairman Jack Brooks, D-Texas, said he was not holding up anticrime legislation, but was trying to
take a more deliberative approach to the issue. He assigned most of the Bush crime package to Judiciary
subcommittees, and it was expected that the full committee would act on some legislation despite Brooks' avowed
7/3/09 12:16 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal90-1113148&type=hitlist&num=2
subcommittees, and it was expected that the full committee would act on some legislation despite Brooks' avowed
skepticism.
“All of us have voted for crime bills almost every year for the last few years,” Brooks declared in April. “We have got
almost as many crime bills passed as they have crimes committed.”
Senate Floor Action
The Senate passed its version of the crime bill (S 1970), 94–6, on. July 11 after weeks of contentious debate and
cloture votes. (Vote 147, p. 33-S)
Biden and GOP floor manager Thurmond praised the measure with superlatives.
“This is the toughest, most comprehensive crime bill in our history,” said Biden.
“This bill will go down in history as one of the greatest pieces of legislation ever passed,” Thurmond said.
Largely written on the floor — there was no committee report — S 1970 reflected more of Biden's original proposal
(S 1972) than Bush's.
On the more contentious issues, the Senate:
Voted to ban nine foreign and domestic semiautomatic assault guns.
Approved a new death penalty, an option for more than 30 crimes. It was largely the handiwork of Republicans and had
been a goal of Bush.
Approved a compromise between Democrats and Republicans on revising the habeas corpus process under which
death row inmates could challenge their sentences.
Rejected a provision that would have prohibited a death sentence if a defendant could show that his or the victim's race
played a role in sentencing. The “racial justice” proposal was stripped from the bill with the support of a majority of
Republicans and just fewer than half the Democrats.
Authorized 3,000 federal agents and prosecutors and included a Democratic proposal to authorize $ 900 million —
nearly half the nearly $ 2 billion in the bill — for local law enforcement.
The White House opposed most of the big-money items attached to the bill in amendments June 28.
Before passage, the Senate voted 99–1 to add one final amendment to the bill, a package of get-tough provisions
aimed at savings and loan fraud. (Vote 146, p. 33-S)
Voting against the final bill were two liberal Democrats, Kennedy and Howard M. Metzenbaum of Ohio; two
moderate Republicans, Dave Durenberger, Minn., and Mark O. Hatfield, Ore.; and two GOP conservatives, William L.
Armstrong, Colo., and William V. Roth, Jr., Del.
Seesawing Fortunes
The first four days of floor action May 21–24 were marked with partisan maneuvers and political upsets.
Democrats, eager to take the political offensive on the crime issue, won on a number of provisions. They hoped that
if Republicans tried later to retaliate with “killer” amendments, the GOP would be viewed as trying to sandbag the
crime bill.
But Orrin G. Hatch, R-Utah, accused the Democrats of “watering down” the death-penalty section and of working
toward a bill that was “less than tough on crime.”
The most serious threat to the bill's passage, however, came not from the debate over capital punishment and
death-penalty appeals but from a narrow vote to preserve the committee-approved ban on assault weapons.
Habeas Corpus: Two Tries
The writ of habeas corpus — Latin for “you have the body” — was a centuries-old English legal procedure for
prisoners to challenge the legality of their detention.
In the United States, death row inmates routinely sought writs of habeas corpus in state and federal courts in legal
challenges after their regular appeals in an effort to reverse their sentences, overturn their convictions or at least
delay executions.
Under existing law, inmates had to exhaust their petitions in state courts before making collateral attacks on their
convictions in federal court. A committee appointed by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and headed by retired
Justice Powell found in a 1989 report that the average time between conviction and execution in capital cases was
more than eight years.
7/3/09 12:16 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal90-1113148&type=hitlist&num=2
Biden and Bob Graham, D-Fla., had authored limited revisions of the habeas corpus process that were included in S
1970 as reported. On the floor, Thurmond and Arlen Specter, R-Pa., offered a substitute with tighter time limits and
stricter requirements for second petitions in federal courts.
The Thurmond-Specter proposal was defeated, 47–50, on May 23. But the next day, a motion to reconsider was
adopted 52–46, and the language was then accepted by voice vote. (Vote 105, p. 24-S; vote 106, p. 25-S)
Switching to allow reconsideration were Oklahoma Democrat David L. Boren and Minnesota Republican
Durenberger, along with Specter, who had voted “no” the first time, when it was clear that the amendment was
failing, to preserve his right to ask for a new vote.
Two senators who were absent May 23, Louisiana Democrats John B. Breaux and J. Bennett Johnston, voted for
reconsideration May 24.
A Faster Review Process
Graham described the Thurmond-Specter plan as “90 to 95 percent identical” to his proposal.
The final language would have eliminated the exhaustion of state habeas corpus proceedings as a prerequisite for
federal habeas corpus proceedings and would have required federal courts to complete review of such petitions
within a year. States could adopt the faster procedure only if they provided competent counsel to the prisoner facing
execution.
Specter maintained that the state reviews were “customarily pro forma” and unreasonably delayed the process.
“They go before the same court where the person is tried and sentenced to death,” he said. “That case has already
gone to the state supreme court, which has upheld the trial and the death penalty. The only additional ingredient
customarily is the issue of competency of counsel. And as a matter of practice, it is pro forma. Several years are
consumed in that process.”
But Graham said a state court should first decide the state issues. He said that because there were no sanctions for
federal judges who did not comply with the time periods, there was no point to setting deadlines.
Powell's committee did not recommend bypassing state habeas reviews. But it would have required prisoners to
petition a federal court within six months of a final state order and would have barred added filings.
The Thurmond-Specter language would have required inmates to file a federal habeas petition within 60 days of the
appointment of counsel and resolution of an appeal to the state's highest court.
The Graham-Biden version would have allowed a year for filings.
The Thurmond-Specter plan also would have set stricter limits on second petitions in federal district court, requiring
that an inmate first get permission from a federal appeals court. A second petition would be allowed only if the facts
of the claim would be enough, if proved, to undermine the court's confidence in the jury's determination of guilt or if
newly discovered facts would compromise the court's confidence in the validity of the death sentence.
The bill would let a court consider a subsequent claim based on intervening decisions by the U.S. Supreme Court
that “establish fundamental rights.” Specter said it was unlikely that there would be many such intervening decisions
because of the swift timetable ordered.
Broadening the Death Penalty
S 1970 would have authorized capital punishment for 30 federal crimes, primarily murder, espionage and treason.
Most of these offenses carried a death penalty, but the sanction was invalidated in 1972 when the Supreme Court
struck down all existing state and federal capital punishment laws.
The court later set out guidelines for how to impose the death penalty, outlining a two-stage procedure. Since then,
states that allowed capital punishment had set up a process by which a trial was held to determine a defendant's
guilt or innocence, and then a second proceeding was conducted to set the sentence. The first execution under the
new guidelines was in 1977, and 123 people had been executed as of May 2, 1990, according to the NAACP Legal
Defense and Educational Fund. The fund also reported that 2,327 people were on death rows as of that date.
In 1974 Congress approved capital punishment for airline hijackings that resulted in death, and in 1988, as part of
an omnibus antidrug law, it approved capital punishment for certain drug-trafficking murders. (1974 Almanac, p.
275; 1988 Almanac, p. 85)
A sizable majority in the Senate supported a broader federal death penalty, and many members viewed Kennedy's
“racial justice” proposal as an effort to deter capital punishment.
Under Kennedy's proposal, prosecutors would have to prove by “clear and convincing evidence” that racial
disparities in sentencing were not the result of discrimination but simply reflected pertinent non-racial factors.
“In study after study, experts have found that those who kill white people are many times more likely to receive the
death penalty than those who kill blacks,” Kennedy said. “And there is disturbing evidence that black defendants are
7/3/09 12:16 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal90-1113148&type=hitlist&num=2
death penalty than those who kill blacks,” Kennedy said. “And there is disturbing evidence that black defendants are
more likely to be given a death sentence than white defendants.”
In 1987, the Supreme Court in McCleskey v. Kemp rejected challenges to capital punishment based on statistical
evidence of racial disparities. The court said the defendant failed to demonstrate purposeful discrimination.
“I believe that the McCleskey decision was wrongly decided,” Kennedy said, “and that the compelling evidence that
McCleskey's sentence was affected by racial consideration should have been sufficient to set aside his sentence.”
But Graham, a former governor of Florida who had long been a strong advocate of capital punishment, said
Kennedy's provision would destroy a state's capital punishment procedures.
He said that the criminal justice process did not lend itself to statistical analysis and that a jury should be left to
assess the specific acts of a defendant.
Graham moved on May 24 to strike Kennedy's language and prevailed 58–38, winning a majority of Republicans
and just fewer than half the Democrats. (Vote 108, p. 25-S)
Executing the Mentally Retarded
Critics of capital punishment succeeded, however, in preserving two provisions of S 1970 to bar executing anyone
under 17 at the time of a federal crime or who was mentally retarded. The amendments responded to two recent
Supreme Court decisions that refused to impose such limitations as a matter of constitutional law.
“The Supreme Court says it is all right to put mentally retarded people to death,” Biden said in explaining the
proviso. “Just because the Supreme Court said we can, that does not mean we should.”
By 38–59, the Senate rejected May 24 a Thurmond amendment to spare only the mentally retarded who were
incapable of knowing right from wrong. (Vote 107, p. 25-S)
Ban on Assault Weapons
Democrats surprised themselves May 23 by mustering enough votes to defeat Hatch's motion to delete the ban on
making, selling or possessing nine semiautomatic assault-style weapons. Among the weapons to be banned was
the AK-47, which had been used in the January 1989 school-yard massacre in Stockton, Calif., that sparked an
outcry over criminal use of semiautomatics.
Hatch's motion to delete the weapons ban failed 48–52. Two hours later, gun control advocates prevailed again as
a motion to reconsider fell short, 49–50. On the second roll call, seven Republicans joined 43 Democrats in
protecting the gun ban. (Votes 103, 104, p. 24-S)
The day before the votes, the National Rifle Association (NRA) was predicting victory, and supporters of the gun
ban were gloomy, despite intensive lobbying efforts by scores of law enforcement representatives who supported the
provision.
But Dennis DeConcini, D-Ariz., whose sponsorship of the gun ban had touched off a recall effort, later abandoned, in
Arizona, brought off the one-vote victory.
The vote marked the biggest Senate defeat for the NRA, which was known for its lobbying muscle and hefty
campaign contributions.
In 1988, when the NRA was able to pressure Congress to keep a seven-day waiting period to buy handguns out of
an omnibus crime bill, the action took place in the House. The only time the full Senate approved a gun control
measure in 1988 was an 89–0 vote for an amendment to antidrug legislation that banned making, importing, selling
or possessing firearms that could evade X-ray or metal-detecting devices. (1988 Almanac: drug bill, p. 85; NRA, p.
100; plastic guns, p. 108)
As recently as 1986, Congress had voted to significantly ease federal gun control laws, after many years of NRA
lobbying to win relaxation of the landmark 1968 Gun Control Act. A major provision of the 1986 law (PL 99–308)
lifted a 20-year ban on interstate sales of rifles and shotguns and lowered the number of people who were required
to get licenses to sell firearms. (1986 Almanac, p. 82)
The DeConcini language would have banned five types of foreign and four types of domestic weapons for three
years. Owners of listed weapons would have to get a proof-of-ownership form from a licensed dealer and keep a
record of people to whom they sold the weapons.
Nine types of weapons were on the list to be banned. Five types were foreign-made and were already barred under
an administration order: Norinco, Mitchell and Poly Technologies Avtomat Kalashnikovs (all models, the AK-47
included); Action Arms Israeli Military Industries Uzi and Galil; Beretta AR-70 (SC-70); Fabrique Nationale FN/FAL,
FN/LAR and FNC; and Steyr AUG.
The four categories of domestic weapons listed were INTRATEC TEC-9; MAC 10 and MAC 11; Street Sweeper and
Striker 12; and Colt AR-15 and CAR-15.
Stiffer Ban Rejected
7/3/09 12:16 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal90-1113148&type=hitlist&num=2
A handful of Southern Democrats who generally opposed gun control supported DeConcini, including Lloyd Bentsen
of Texas, David L. Boren of Oklahoma, Sam Nunn of Georgia and Al Gore of Tennessee. DeConcini also won the
vote of Majority Leader George J. Mitchell, D-Maine, elected by a big sporting state and who had been quoted in the
past as saying he did not believe in gun control.
DeConcini said, “If Mitchell hadn't done it, I don't think we would have won.” Mitchell said DeConcini's proposal
reflected a “reasonable, moderate and feasible recognition that our nation can accept some limits on firearms
ownership when the firearms in question have no valid hunting or sporting purpose.”
But while the vote was a success for Democrats, it cast uncertainty on the entire legislation.
The NRA vowed to work to make sure the provisions went no further. The Bush administration hinted the president
would veto a bill with such restrictions.
A day earlier, the Senate had voted 82–17 to table an amendment by Metzenbaum that would have permanently
banned 12 more types of semiautomatic rifles and pistols and limited ammunition magazines to 15 rounds. (Vote
102, p. 24-S)
Proponents of the gun control provisions said senators queasy about supporting DeConcini's ban liked the “cover” of
being able to reject Metzenbaum's tougher curbs.
Nra Strikes Back
Caught off guard by the May 23 vote, the NRA wrote letters to its members in the districts of senators who had
voted to retain the assault-weapons provision, saying that those senators had betrayed “honest gun owners.”
“This vote sets America on the road to universal gun confiscation,” the NRA told its members.
It asked them to write to senators saying, “Your gun ban vote is a double-cross, and if you think gun control is the
same as crime control, you have no business being in the U.S. Senate.”
An incensed Bob Kerrey, D-Neb., who had voted to keep the ban on semiautomatics, inserted into the Congressional
Record on June 5 an NRA letter to one of his constituents, along with a response he sent to the organization
accusing it of “irresponsible, inaccurate and misleading statements.”
“Allow me to predict that your outrageous techniques will, in the end, prove to be counterproductive,” Kerrey wrote
to Wayne LaPierre, executive director of the NRA's lobbying group.
Cloture Efforts
The gun-control provision figured in two unsuccessful efforts to invoke cloture on the bill the week of June 4.
Neither Democrats nor Republicans wanted the blame for killing the election-year bill, but inclusion of the assault-
weapons ban changed the dynamics of the issue somewhat.
Attempts to invoke cloture and thereby limit debate failed 54–37 on June 5 and 57–37 on June 7. Sixty votes
(three-fifths of the entire Senate) were required for cloture. (Votes 109, 112, p. 26-S)
On both roll calls, Republicans voted heavily against limiting debate, while most Democrats supported cloture.
Senators' positions on gun control appeared to influence their votes.
Of the 37 senators voting against cloture, 35 had tried May 23 to strip from the bill the ban on the manufacture, sale
and possession of nine semiautomatic assault-style weapons. When that effort failed, many Republicans who had
previously supported the anticrime bill suddenly turned against it.
Most of the debate on June 7 centered on which party was responsible for jeopardizing the anticrime bill.
As he threatened to end further consideration of S 1970, Majority Leader Mitchell said, “Let's not have any
misunderstanding where the responsibility lies for not getting a crime bill. It's not the majority leader who's taking
the bill down but the Senate, specifically those who voted against cloture.”
Both he and Biden pointed to the opponents of gun control, mostly Republicans, in particular.
When Republicans rejected that connection, Mitchell scoffed at the idea that it was mere coincidence that 32 of the
37 senators who voted against cloture on June 5 had fought the semiautomatics ban; on June 7, it was 35 of 37.
The two other senators who voted against cloture June 7 — Kennedy and Hatfield — opposed the death-penalty
provisions.
Finger-Pointing
Republicans, who made up most of the anti-gun-control forces in the Senate, maintained that their votes against
cloture had more to do with “gag” orders that Democrats had imposed on the bill to limit Republicans' ability to offer
amendments.
7/3/09 12:16 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 9 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal90-1113148&type=hitlist&num=2
Utah's Hatch said, “The real reason it [cloture] was not Unvoked] was because there is a desire on the part of many
senators on the floor to … bring up additional amendments that happen to apply to the criminal aspects of the bill.”
Minority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan., who voted for cloture, chided Mitchell for giving up after two votes. He and other
Republicans suggested that if Mitchell would not let the bill return to the floor, it was the Democrats who were in
effect killing the bill.
“It's in the bag,” Dole predicted of a third cloture vote. Mitchell quickly rejoined, “We are told that cloture is in the
bag. That is what I was told yesterday. That is what I was told this morning. And as we have just seen, cloture was
not in the bag.”
Biden said, “Everyone knew this was do-or-die time for the crime bill. And it just died.”
The Bill Is Revived
Although Mitchell at first indicated that he did not want the Senate to spend more time on the anticrime bill, he soon
agreed to allow Biden and Thurmond to search for a way to salvage the legislation.
What they came up with was a little something for everyone with a tough-on-crime agenda. After some false starts,
an agreement on how amendments would be presented was reached June 28. And senators agreed not to reopen
the contentious crime issues for the rest of the year.
The pact specified that when senators finished with S 1970, no motions would be allowed for the rest of the 101st
Congress on the death penalty, assault weapons, the exclusionary rule, the availability of firearms for purchase or
death row inmates' petitions for writs of habeas corpus.
The unanimous-consent agreement also dropped from the original version of S 1970 a proposal to reorganize the
Justice Department's crime and dangerous-drug divisions and a plan to relax the so-called exclusionary rule to allow
certain evidence seized without a valid search warrant to be introduced into court.
During the 10-hour crush June 28–29 to finish amending the bill before the Fourth of July recess, senators made
headway only by agreeing to less debate and shorter votes. Several pet projects were dropped.
A host of amendments were adopted by voice votes, some of them subject to senators' concerns about
constitutional problems.
Negotiations over the savings and loan fraud amendment lagged, however, so the bill was held over for final action
July 11.
Another Shootout Over Guns
Phil Gramm, R-Texas, tried once more on June 28 to remove the assault-weapons ban from the bill.
Gramm proposed substituting provisions to mandate minimum sentences for firearms violations and for other drug-
related and violent crimes. He said he offered members a choice between gun control and “criminal control.”
“The sad, cold reality is that felons who are smuggling drugs into the country will smuggle in guns,” Gramm said.
Countering Gramm, DeConcini moved to add his own antigun language to the Texan's amendment. That forced
members to vote again to keep in the bill what would be the first federal ban on U.S.-made semiautomatics.
Despite the NRA's lobbying and the presence of Vice President Dan Quayle, presiding and ready to break a tie, the
DeConcini gun ban prevailed in its June 28 test. The vote was 50–48. (Vote 133, p. 31-S)
Alfonse M. D'Amato, R-N.Y., the one member rumored ready to switch to oppose the weapons ban, was lobbied
vigorously by both sides right up to the end of the vote. But he ended up voting for the prohibition.
With DeConcini's gun ban locked into the amendment, Gramm's proposal for stricter penalties passed 87–12. (Vote
134, p. 31-S)
It would have required that anyone using a firearm during a violent crime be sentenced to at least 10 years in prison
without parole. The mandatory penalties would be higher if the weapon was fired or if the conviction was the
defendant's second firearms offense.
Another Round on Death Penalty
On June 29, the Senate rejected 25–73 a motion by death-penalty opponent Hatfield that would have substituted
mandatory life imprisonment for the 30 crimes. (Vote 143, p. 33-S)
In separate action earlier, the Senate also expanded the reach of capital punishment by authorizing the death
penalty for so-called drug kingpins, defendants convicted as leaders of continuing criminal enterprises. The
amendment by D'Amato was adopted 66–32. (Vote 140, p. 33-S)
But the Senate defeated, 43–55, an amendment by Pete Wilson, R-Calif., that would have authorized the death
7/3/09 12:16 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 10 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal90-1113148&type=hitlist&num=2
penalty in cases in which death resulted during an offense that violated a civil rights statute. (Vote 141, p. 33-S)
One of the more contentious changes to the death-penalty language was offered by Daniel K. Inouye, D-Hawaii. He
proposed excluding Indian lands from the reach of the capital punishment provisions unless a tribe voted to have
the law cover its land.
Inouye said without his amendment people on reservations in states that did not impose the death penalty would be
liable for capital punishment because they were on federal lands. Most murder cases were covered by state law,
and Indian land made up a significant portion of federal lands to which the new death-penalty law would apply.
The Senate rebuffed two challenges by James A. McClure, R-Idaho. One, to table Inouye's amendment, failed 37–
62. The second, to narrow the Inouye amendment's scope, was tabled 51–47. (Votes 136, 137, p. 31-S)
The Senate then adopted Inouye's amendment by voice vote.
The role of race in a state's criminal justice system, including the imposition of the death penalty, would have been
studied under an amendment that Graham offered on June 28. He proposed that Congress authorize $ 2 million
annually for the next five years for state grants.
A skeptical Hatch suggested that the study might be used to overturn convictions of minorities. He tried to amend
the proposal to limit the studies to whether the constitutional rights of criminal defendants were being violated. The
Hatch amendment failed 44–55, and the Graham proposal then carried by voice vote. (Vote 138, p. 31-S)
A death-penalty provision already in S 1970, involving the petitions that prisoners made to federal courts to
challenge the legality of their detention, was left unamended. The bill would have eliminated the exhaustion of state
habeas corpus proceedings as a prerequisite for federal habeas corpus review and would have required federal
courts to complete review of such petitions within a year.
Other Amendments
Following are other amendments considered by the Senate:
Law enforcement. A Biden proposal called for adding ‘,000 FBI agents, 1,000 Drug Enforcement Administration
agents, 500 border patrol officers and 480 prosecutors to the Justice Department.
The amendment, adopted 96–2 on June 28, had a projected price tag of $ 332 million. (Vote 142, p. 32-S)
A separate amendment by John Kerry, D-Mass., adopted by voice vote, would have authorized $ 900 million to the
Bureau of Justice Assistance for state and local law enforcement assistance. Illegal drug activity would have been
the target of the grants.
To improve the education and training of police officers, the Senate adopted an amendment to authorize $ 400
million in fiscal 1991 to states to provide college scholarships to individuals who promised to work four years after
graduation for state or local police departments.
The police corps plan was offered by Specter and adopted 64–35 on June 28. The proposal was heartily praised
and the only point of opposition was its cost. (Vote 139, p. 32-S)
Illegal drugs. The Senate adopted an amendment by Daniel K. Akaka, D-Hawaii, to impose tougher penalties for
producing, manufacturing, selling or distributing “ice” — a pure and smokeable form of methamphetamine — after
hearing warnings that it could become the fad illegal drug of the next decade.
The amendment was adopted June 28 after a proposal by Slade Gorton, R-Wash., was attached 79–20. Gorton's
amendment sought to require that certain manufacturers of ice and other controlled substances be licensed. (Vote
135, p. 31-S)
Children, victims. By voice vote, the Senate adopted a Child Victims Bill of Rights, which would have increased the
penalties for drug-related child abuse and set up a $ 20 million grant program to establish a child abuse
investigation and prosecution program. The proposal by Harry Reid, D-Nev., was accepted after amendments by
voice vote by Herb Kohl, D-Wis., and Thurmond.
Kohl's amendment would have authorized $ 15 million in fiscal 1991 for grants to programs that treated juvenile
offenders who were abused. Thurmond's amendment would have increased the penalties for sex crimes against
children and also made it a crime to possess or view certain pornography.
Members also adopted by voice vote separate amendments to increase victims' access to information during federal
criminal proceedings and their ability to win restitution, offered by Charles E. Grassley, R-Iowa; to provide for a
mandatory 30-year prison term for child kidnapping, by Rudy Boschwitz, R-Minn.; and to place a work requirement
on federal prisoners, by Trent Lott, R-Miss.
Savings and Loan Fraud
The savings and loan fraud amendment stemmed from a compromise among members of the Judiciary and Banking
committees and the Bush administration. It was approved 99–1, on July 11, with the only “no” vote coming from
7/3/09 12:16 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 11 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal90-1113148&type=hitlist&num=2
committees and the Bush administration. It was approved 99–1, on July 11, with the only “no” vote coming from
Colorado Republican Armstrong, who called the amendment a “knee-jerk response.” (Vote 146, p. 33-S)
The amendment, sponsored primarily by Tim Wirth, D-Colo., and John Heinz, R-Pa., would have provided $ 162.5
million to beef up federal investigations of thrift fraud and increase the penalties for defendants, including mandatory
life imprisonment for long-term, multimillion-dollar offenders. Violators who acted in concert with at least three other
offenders and collected more than $ 5 million for their crimes over two years would be eligible for life in prison.
“Perhaps the amendment will provide senators a smoke screen to shift the culpability for the S&L mess from the
Congress and on to a few unscrupulous businessmen,” Armstrong said. “But the fact is the S&L mess, which the
American taxpayer has been called upon to clean up, was not primarily the result of the wrongdoing of a few thrift
executives, but of a collapse of a thrift system established by and overseen by the Congress.”
With the addition of the savings and loan fraud amendment, the Senate called it quits on the bill. Attention then
shifted to the House.
House Committee Action
On the House side, Republicans had tried for a year to force consideration of an array of bills containing Bush's
anticrime proposals, only to have them languish in the Judiciary Committee. Meanwhile, Democrats, who had come
to expect biennial, election-year crime bills, had been drafting their own proposals.
Judiciary Committee Chairman Brooks, skeptical about the need for crime bills, eventually changed his tune and
scheduled a markup. “This is a tough, far-reaching package that fights back,” Brooks said as his committee began
its work July 17.
The committee completed work on its version of the crime bill (HR 5269) on July 23. The vote was 19–17.
Among the committee bill's key elements:
It would have allowed capital punishment for 10 federal offenses, as opposed to 34 in the Senate bill.
It contained a compromise aimed at clearing the federal courts of excessive appeals from death row inmates. It would
have set deadlines for an inmate to petition for a writ of habeas corpus, a process by which an inmate challenged his
detention.
It would have allowed death row inmates to challenge their sentences if they could prove that their race or that of their
victims was a factor in imposing the death penalty. The Senate eliminated that provision during floor debate.
It would have more strongly emphasized improving the federal prison system and finding alternatives to traditional
incarceration. It would have authorized $ 330 million for those efforts.
William J. Hughes, D-N.J., who chaired the Crime Subcommittee, called this provision the bill's “centerpiece.”
The bill also would have authorized $ 153 million each of the following three fiscal years for the Justice Department to
investigate and prosecute fraud in the thrift industry.
The committee defeated amendments to outlaw semiautomatic pistols and cheap, easily concealed handguns, but voted
to increase penalties for some firearms violations.
Death Penalty
Like the Senate version, the House committee bill backed an expansion of the federal death penalty.
HR 5269 would have allowed a sentence of death for anyone who killed the president or the vice president or
injured them in the attempt.
The sentence could also have been applied to people convicted of murdering a foreign official or internationally
protected person; a federal law officer in the Justice or Treasury departments, the Coast Guard or the Postal
Service, or a federal prison guard; a federal witness in the Witness Protection Program; the victim of a kidnapping
or hostage-taking; or the subject of a contract murder.
Capital punishment would also have been allowed for terrorism and skyjacking that resulted in the death of an
innocent person and for espionage and treason.
The House measure would have prohibited death for people who were mentally retarded or who were under 18 at
the time of their crimes. The restrictions were like those in the Senate bill, except that it used age 17 as the floor
fort death sentence.
Harley O. Staggers Jr., D-W.Va., on July 17 tried to amend HR 5269 to provide a sentence of life in prison without
parole for the crimes that the bill proposed to make capital offenses.
Staggers said he considered the death sentence morally wrong. Robert W. Kastenmeier, D-Wis., agreed, saying the
7/3/09 12:16 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 12 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal90-1113148&type=hitlist&num=2
punishment appealed “to a vengefulness that society seeks to satisfy.”
While a handful of other Democrats agreed, Staggers' amendment was opposed by members who said they
believed the penalty deterred violent crime.
Crime Subcommittee Chairman Hughes, a former state prosecutor, also argued that it was appropriate to reserve
the ultimate penalty for the most egregious crimes.
The amendment was defeated by voice vote.
Don Edwards, D-Calif., pressed an amendment that would have taken off the House's death-penalty list three crimes
that did not, result in death: attempted assassination, espionage and treason. The committee rejected that
amendment, too, 16–20.
When the committee returned to work July 18, George W. Gekas, R-Pa., tried to extend capital punishment to more
than a dozen other death-penalty crimes that were in the statutes when the Supreme Court struck down the laws in
1972. Those crimes were formerly longstanding offenses such as bank robbery and wrecking a train — both only in
which death resulted — and murder of a horse, meat, poultry or egg-products inspector.
Gekas said the death penalty should be allowed for all homicides involving federal officials. His amendment was
rejected 14–22.
The committee also defeated, 14–22, a proposal by Bill  McCollum, R-Fla., that would have allowed someone who
ran a major drug-trafficking empire to be executed, even if his enterprise was not proved to have killed anyone.
Howard L. Berman, D-Calif., who fought the proposal, suggested that McCollum was applying “an eye for a tooth”
justice.
McCollum rejoined that he was seeking “an eye for an eye,” and ally Henry J. Hyde, R-Ill., added, “We are not being
serious about the drug problem until we provide the ultimate penalty.”
McCollum's “drug kingpin” provision was less sweeping than the Senate's, whih would have allowed the death
penalty when the amounts of drugs and money involved were lower than the threshold McCollum proposed.
Habeas Corpus Petitions
On July 19, the Judiciary Committee approved a compromise amendment intended to reduce excessive habeas
corpus appeals and to assure competent, court-appointed counsel for condemned inmates.
Offered by Kastenmeier and Hughes, the amendment would have required inmates to file petitions for writs of
habeas corpus within one year of losing direct appeals of their sentences. The Senate bill would have required filing
within six months.
The House measure would have kept the tradition of appealing first to state courts, then to the federal bench. The
Senate bill would have eliminated the exhaustion of state habeas corpus proceedings as a prerequisite for federal
habeas corpus proceedings.
Assault Weapons
One of the more controversial provisions in the Senate package would have outlawed what police said were the
nine most dangerous semiautomatic assault-style weapons.
The House bill did not have a similar provision to the Senate's highly controversial assault-gun ban, although the
Judiciary Committee had already approved a ban on assault-style weapons.
Sponsored by Hughes and sent to the full House on June 12, HR 4225 would have required the Treasury secretary
to outlaw domestic semiautomatics that did not meet the “sporting purposes” test under which foreign-made assault-
style weapons were prohibited. The Customs Service estimated that 12 domestic rifles did not meet a sporting-
purpose test.
The Judiciary Committee beat back two other gun-control moves. On July 18, it rejected 15–21 an amendment by
Tom Campbell, R-Calif., to ban semiautomatic pistols. The next day, it defeated, 12–23, an amendment by Lawrence
J. Smith, D-Fla., to outlaw making and importing cheap handguns known as Saturday night specials.
However, over Brooks' objections, the committee adopted, 19–15, an amendment by Dan Glickman, D-Kan., to
increase from five to 10 years the mandatory prison sentence for using a sawed-off shotgun or rifle in drug crimes
and to impose a 30-year sentence for using a bomb or a grenade during a drug-related crime.
Thrift-Industry Fraud
The savings and loan scandal contributed to the drive for an anticrime bill. With the thrift industry collapse expected
to cost taxpayers billions of dollars, lawmakers wanted to show that they would punish wrongdoers.
House Speaker Thomas S. Foley, D-Wash., Brooks and other Democratic leaders used a news conference July 18 to
7/3/09 12:16 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 13 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal90-1113148&type=hitlist&num=2
announce an amendment to HR 5269 to give the Justice Department $ 153 million in additional money to go after
savings and loan fraud and to stiffen criminal penalties and sentencing provisions.
The amendment also would have established new authority to freeze and seize assets of criminals and compel
restitution for victims.
The bank fraud section was the result of a carefully crafted compromise between Charles E. Schumer, D-N.Y., and
the panel's ranking Republican, Hamilton Fish Jr. of New York.
Many of the provisions in the thrift section were taken from a Republican-sponsored bill (HR 5050) that the House
Banking Subcommittee on Financial Institutions had approved overwhelmingly June 28.
The thrift section would have made it illegal to conceal the assets of a failed thrift and would have established
procedures for the government to seize U.S. any overseas assets of thrift officials convicted of fraud.
A 12-member bipartisan commission would also have been created to probe the causes of the thrift crisis and
recommend strategies for law enforcement.
“The American people want solutions, and the Justice Department is responding,” Schumer said. “And this gives the
Justice Department all the resources they need to do the job.”
Despite agreement on the need to spend more to investigate and penalize thrift fraud more harshly, the
deliberations took on partisan overtones almost immediately after the bank fraud provisions were aired before the
committee.
The bill would have authorized the Justice Department to set up a special counsel to investigate bank fraud. An
acrimonious debate ensued over an amendment by Chuck Douglas, R-N.H., to authorize the special counsel to
investigate past and current members of Congress.
Douglas linked the amendment to Democrats' call for an independent counsel to investigate Neil Bush, son of the
president, for his role as a director of the failed Silverado Banking, Savings and Loan Association in Denver. Eleven
Judiciary Committee Democrats had written Attorney General Dick Thornburgh on July 13 seeking appointment of a
special prosecutor on the matter.
“We get 11 letters from Democrats [asking] to investigate Neil Bush, but they won't get a roll call vote to investigate
their buddies,” Douglas said.
Almost unanimously, the Democrats denounced Douglas for “painting with a broad brush” the relations of members
of Congress with thrift officials tainted by the crisis. Some suggested that such a probe include inquiries into
financial affairs of the president, the vice president, Cabinet members and their families.
Brooks objected to the whole idea, saying: “It's a bad attitude to be taking.”
Douglas' amendment was narrowly defeated, 17–19. Joining Republicans in voting with Douglas were Democrats
John Bryant, Texas; George E. Sangmeister, Ill.; and Craig Washington, Texas.
But Democrat Glickman then offered a different amendment, to give the special counsel authority to investigate
executive branch officials and their families for involvement in bank and thrift irregularities. That amendment carried,
35–1.
The Judiciary panel adopted an amendment by Sangmeister to set mandatory sentences of 10 years to life in prison
for certain high-ranking savings and loan “kingpins” convicted of fraud, part of an overall increase in penalties for
bank fraud. All the new penalty provisions would have applied only to crimes that were uncovered in the future;
allegations of fraud in the thrift industry that had already turned up would have been covered under existing law.
An amendment by Gekas that would have given the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation top priority in trying to
recoup property or money misappropriated from thrifts was defeated by voice vote.
The amendment, Schumer and other opponents argued, would have prevented shareholders from filing private
lawsuits against officers of the savings institutions.
Other Issues
The committee approved miscellaneous amendments to the omnibus measure, many of them technical. Among
them were the following proposals:
By McCollum, to disqualify those convicted of federal crimes from receiving government benefits other than pensions
and retirement or welfare aid; by voice vote.
By Bryant, to disallow sports lotteries for amateur and professional events and prohibit radio and television advertising
for sports lotteries; by voice vote.
Bush Veto Threat
7/3/09 12:16 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 14 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal90-1113148&type=hitlist&num=2
The House committee's version of the crime bill produced a veto threat from the administration. Bush and Attorney
General Thornburgh complained that it would be tougher on law enforcement than on crime.
“I simply will not accept anything that rolls back the clock on America's ability to fight crime and punish wrongdoers,”
Bush told a group of prosecutors at the White House on Sept. 12. “The bottom line is really this: I will not sign a
crime bill that handcuffs the police.”
While the administration raised a host of objections to HR 5269, it found most onerous the new standards on the
death penalty and appeals.
On the racial disparity procedure, for example, the administration contended that prosecutors would have an
“unrealistic burden” of disproving statistics offered by defendants. As a result, Thornburgh said in a Sept. 11 letter to
House Speaker Foley, “this ill-conceived proposal would apply to every state defendant now on death row and would
likely result in the invalidation of every capital sentence now in effect.”
The House bill also would have required that before federal juries imposed the death penalty they find at least two
aggravating circumstances, factors such as a prior murder conviction or exceptional brutality. Thornburgh said this
constraint was “unprecedented.” He also objected to the bill's death-penalty requirement for only 10 federal crimes
(mostly involving murder) rather than the 30 offenses covered in the Senate bill.
Bush, in his speech, and Thornburgh, in his letter, also lashed out at the bill's standards for prisoners seeking
habeas corpus review.
In three cases — the 1989 Teague v. Lane and the 1990 Butler v. McKellar and Saffle v. Parks — the high court
had made it more difficult for defendants to challenge their convictions based on new, favorable court rulings in
other cases. The House committee bill would have restored to defendants the chance to use new court rulings as a
basis for appeal.
Democratic sponsors said these provisions were intended to balance the rights of defendants and the state's interest
in carrying out a death sentence.
But Thornburgh said the effect would be to eliminate capital punishment: “These changes would vastly enlarge the
opportunities for prisoners to attack and potentially overturn their convictions and sentences on the basis of alleged
‘new law’ that did not exist at the time the judgments in their cases became final.”
Kastenmeier, who worked with Edwards and Crime Subcommittee Chairman Hughes on the death-penalty and
habeas corpus provisions, said, “We don't regard this bill as favoring defendants. But we did try to balance things,
no question about it.”
House Floor Action
By the time HR 5269 came up for floor debate, the budget process was in turmoil and fears of anti-incumbent
sentiment abounded. Approval of the bill on Oct. 5, by a vote of 368–55, came after an initial false start and then
three days of debate and amendments that allowed members to show some pre-election muscle by making the bill
tougher on defendants. (Vote 427, p. 138-H)
Derailing the Rule
Originally, the Rules Committee sought to preserve the tone of the Judiciary Committee's bill, barring floor
amendments to strike the death-penalty provisions that Bush opposed.
But, in a surprise to both sides of the debate, that effort failed Sept. 25 when the House voted 166–258 against a
rule that would have allowed consideration of the bill, without the disputed amendments. The GOP leadership was
joined by 84 Democrats opposed to the rule. (Vote 376, p. 120-H)
Shortly before the House took up the bill Sept. 25 police groups accused the Democratic leadership, particularly
Foley, of shutting out gun-control activists. The Rules Committee, which had allowed 46 amendments to the crime
bill, had barred consideration of an amendment for 4 seven-day waiting period for handgun purchases.
Foley had voted in the past against gun control.
The Rules Committee had decided earlier that two proposals (HR 4225, HR 1154) for controls on semiautomatic
assault-style weapons would be in order after a vote on the omnibus bill, HR 5269.
Hyde wanted to offer an amendment for an alternative habeas corpus proposal, but the Illinois Republican's
proposal was barred by the Rules Committee. Hyde proposed requiring inmates to petition a federal court within six
months; greatly restricting the grounds for subsequent appeal; and lessening requirements for competent counsel at
trial and on appeal.
“If you want to do away with the death penalty, do it,” Hyde said in floor debate opposing the limited rule. “Do not
do it indirectly by reforming habeas corpus to produce a never-ending, never-final procedure. It is not fair to the
prisoners. It is not fair to society. And it certainly is not fair to law enforcement.”
7/3/09 12:16 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 15 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal90-1113148&type=hitlist&num=2
National associations of district attorneys and attorneys general had written to members protesting the bill.
One of the 84 Democrats siding with the GOP leadership in voting down the rule was Claude Harris, of Tuscaloosa,
Ala., who stood on the House floor and talked about his eight years as a trial judge and 10 years as a state
prosecutor. He told his colleagues that if the House's omnibus crime bill became law, no state would be able to
carry out the death penalty.
“A true crime-control act would not be without a single supporter among the entire prosecutorial population of this
country, as this one is,” Harris said.
The Rules Committee returned the following week with a rule that made in order proposed amendments the GOP
sought — most importantly for them the Hyde proposal. The chamber resumed debate on the bill Oct. 3.
Raucous Debate
The Oct. 5 vote followed three days of raucous debate, in which opponents of capital punishment shouted derisively,
“Kill! Kill! Kill!” as amendments were adopted to expand the death penalty to about 30 crimes and make it easier for
states to impose and carry it out.
Stripped from the bill were provisions aimed at protecting defendants' rights, which in some cases might have
resulted in blocking or delaying an execution. New limits on death row inmate appeals would be imposed.
Among the bill's other features:
An increase in criminal penalties, mostly for drug crimes;
Authorization of more money for local law enforcement;
Requirement of new prison rehabilitation programs and sentencing alternatives.
A loophole for the administration's ban on imported semiautomatic weapons: domestic parts could be used to make
copies of banned foreign assault-style weapons.
While the majority had the momentum of public fears about crime, Charles B. Rangel, D-N.Y., complained that the
House showed “a lust for blood.”
Just before final passage, McCollum, ranking Republican on the Crime Subcommittee, who had been pushing the
administration's law-and-order package, said, “I think we've done an excellent job in the war against crime in this
bill.”
But Crime Subcommittee Chairman Hughes, who supported the bill, nonetheless said, “I hope we never, ever bring
up a crime bill again a month before an election.”
Capital Punishment
As reported by committee, HR 5269 had 10 crimes that carried the potential of the death penalty. On Oct. 4,
however, the House adopted, 271–159, a Gekas amendment to expand the list to an estimated 30 federal crimes.
(Vote 413, p. 134-H)
Most on the list involved murder. Among them were the intentional killing of the president or vice president; of a
member of Congress or Cabinet official; of a foreign official or other federally protected official; of a federal judge,
prison guard or law enforcement officer; or of a kidnap victim or hostage.
Gekas' amendment also said that a judge or jury would be required to sentence a defendant to death if the judge or
jury found the existence of one aggravating factor and either that it outweighed any mitigating factors or that it alone
justified the death sentence.
The committee had given the jury or judge the discretion on a death-penalty decision and required two aggravating
factors.
Gekas' amendment also would have allowed a prosecutor to ask the jury to consider aggravating factors that were
not part of statute, without prior approval of a trial judge or notice to the defendant. It also would have barred
challenges of a death sentence in a federal habeas corpus proceeding on grounds that the defense lawyer was
incompetent. And it would have repealed a federal law that required counsel for indigent prisoners petitioning for
habeas corpus relief.
Two other death-penalty amendments were accepted.
McCollum proposed allowing the death penalty for defendants who did not cause a murder but engaged in large-
scale drug trafficking or who through “reckless disregard” caused a drug-related death. It was adopted 295–133.
(Vote 414, p. 134-H)
Another amendment, offered by James A. Traficant Jr., D-Ohio, would have authorized the death penalty for anyone
7/3/09 12:16 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 16 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal90-1113148&type=hitlist&num=2
convicted of murdering a state or local law officer who had been working with a federal law officer. It was adopted
by voice vote.
The House rejected, 108–319, a Hughes amendment similar to Gekas' that would have expanded the death penalty
but would not have gone so far in removing procedural safeguards. (Vote 412, p. 134-H)
On Oct. 3, longtime death-penalty foe Staggers tried to get his colleagues to substitute mandatory life imprisonment
without parole for the crimes in the bill. But his amendment failed, 103–322. (Vote 410, p. 132-H)
Inmates' Appeals
Under the bill as amended, death row inmates would have had six months to file habeas corpus petitions — unlike
the unlimited time under existing law — and could generally petition the federal courts just once.
The modification, offered by Hyde, would have required states that wanted to impose the limit to provide lawyers for
the inmates. But, unlike the committee bill, Hyde's language did not set standards for experience. The amendment
was adopted, 285–146, on Oct. 4. (Vote 418, p. 134-H)
The Hyde amendment also contained language aimed at making it more difficult for defendants to challenge their
convictions based on new, favorable court rulings in other cases.
A subsequent habeas corpus petition would be allowed only if the defendant was raising an issue that went to the
validity of his conviction — a difficult test to meet. Ineffective counsel could not be used as a basis for a petition if
the inmate had not made the complaint during a state appeal.
Hughes offered a compromise that would have allowed more exceptions for another attempt at an appeal. The
House rejected it, 189–239. (Vote 417, p. 134-H)
Gun Control
As reported by committee, the bill would have barred use of either imported or domestic parts to make an AK-47,
Uzi or any other foreign, assault-type semiautomatic weapon on the list of those banned by the administration.
But members, heavily lobbied by both sides of the gun control issue, weakened the bill on the floor, allowing
domestic gun makers to assemble any semiautomatic rifle or shotgun identical to any rifle or shotgun banned from
import. Under the amendment, by Jolene Unsoeld, D-Wash., only firearms assembled with foreign parts would be
illegal. The Oct. 4 vote was 257–172. (Vote 416, p. 134-H)
The administration had blocked from import any semi-automatics that did not meet a sporting-purposes test. The
drafters of HR 5269 had wanted to make sure that domestic manufacturers would not build copies of those outlawed
weapons in U.S. plants. Unsoeld said her amendment would make sure that U.S.-made target and other sporting
rifles would not be banned.
Racial Justice
The House adopted a compromise amendment offered by Hughes that would have allowed defendants to challenge
their death sentences on grounds of racial discrimination. His amendment diluted the bill as reported but maintained
the basic premise of establishing precautions against racism in sentencing.
The Judiciary Committee had sought to allow a defendant to establish a prima facie case through statistical
evidence that either his race or that of the victim's led to the death penalty.
Accepted by a 218–186 vote on Oct. 5, the Hughes amendment would have required a court to examine the validity
of the statistics and whether they provided a basis for finding a significant discriminatory pattern. The amendment
would have reduced the weight of statistics and lessened the burden of proof necessary for the government to rebut
the implication of racial discrimination. (Vote 422, p. 138-H)
Death-penalty hard-liners argued that statistics were misleading and that if the provision became law, prosecutors
would be consumed with developing race-based statistics to prove that race was incidental to a jury's decision.
The House then defeated, 204–216, an amendment by F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., R-Wis., to eliminate all the
racial-discrimination provisions. He and other GOP members argued unsuccessfully that the race-based standards
would effectively end states' ability to impose capital punishment. (Vote 423, p. 138-H)
Other Issues
The House adopted, 265–157, on Oct. 5 an amendment, offered by Douglas, to extend the bill's “good faith”
exception to the exclusionary rule to situations when there was no search warrant. (Vote 424, p. 138-H)
The committee's bill would have provided a “good faith” exception for evidence obtained with a faulty search
warrant. Under the New Hampshire Republican's proposal, evidence obtained in a search or seizure that violated
constitutional protections would not be excluded — even if officers had not obtained a warrant — if “the search or
seizure was carried out in circumstances justifying an objectively reasonable belief that it was in conformity with the
Fourth Amendment” of the U.S. Constitution.
7/3/09 12:16 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 17 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal90-1113148&type=hitlist&num=2
In other action, the House:
Adopted Oct. 3, 236–189, an amendment by Albert G. Bustamante, D-Texas, to delete language that would have taken
away state discretion to distribute federal grant funds. The dropped provision would have set up a “direct pass through”
from Washington to local governments, and states had protested that they should have the discretion to distribute the
money. (Vote 408, p. 132-H)
Adopted on Oct. 4, 309–120, an amendment by Carlos J. Moorhead, R-Calif., to remove a provision that would have
blocked state and local law enforcement agencies from transferring forfeited assets to state and local law enforcement
agencies if the transfer would circumvent state law. (Vote 415, p. 134-H)
Adopted on Oct. 3, 415–3, an amendment by Lynn Martin, R-Ill., to cut 10 percent from antidrug and law enforcement
block grants for states that did not have a law requiring a defendant convicted of rape to be tested for the AIDS virus at
the request of the victim. (Vote 409, p. 132-H)
Agreed on Oct. 5, 226–204, to an amendment by Barney Frank, D-Mass., to bar Federal Prison Industries from making
any new item that was made by the footwear, apparel, textile or furniture industries, or expanding the production of any
existing product made by these industries, until  after a market study required by the bill had been submitted to
Congress. The goal was to make sure that the virtually free prison labor did not compete with other U.S. workers. (Vote
419, p. 136-H)
Conference/Final Action
With the bill's future in doubt, members hedged their bets by tacking their favorite provisions onto other bills.
The House before the August recess broke out the savings and loan sanctions and passed them separately as HR
5401. The bill, approved July 31 by 424–4, contained provisions to create stiff penalties for bank fraud, make it
easier to get stolen assets or prevent them from being protected by a bankruptcy filing, and provide more money for
Justice Department enforcement activities. (Vote 288, p. 94-H)
The Senate Judiciary Committee Oct. 11 approved a related bill (S 3194), expanding on what was already in its
omnibus crime legislation.
Meanwhile, both chambers appointed conferees — 94 from the House and 24 from the Senate — to try to resolve
the disputes in time to permit enactment of a bill in some form.
Staff members from both chambers worked to settle the less difficult topics, such as new law enforcement programs
drug control, child-abuse penalties, prison expansion and victims' rights.
Saved for the members themselves were subjects related to the death penalty and guns.
On those issues, the chambers were far apart:
The Senate wanted gun control. The House had voted against it.
The House wanted “racial justice” safeguards for the death penalty. The Senate had voted them down.
The House had a restrictive proposal for death row appeals, which its Democratic leadership fought in vain The Senate
had a convoluted appeals proposal that many senators were ready to scrap.
The strongest card held by opponents of the death penalty was the Racial Justice Act, which conservatives believed
would make the imposition of capital punishment impossible. The House's provision would have let defendants escape
execution if they could prove their sentence was imposed because of racial discrimination.
House Democrats used the section as leverage in negotiations to moderate the overall legislation. The White House
threatened to veto a bill that included the race-based test. It also opposed the Senate's ban on semiautomatic assault-
style weapons.
Some conferees suggested dropping the racial-justice section and the new restrictions on habeas corpus petitions.
Another major sticking point was the Senate ban on sale or production of nine types of semiautomatic weapons.
House Judiciary Chairman Brooks suggested a bare-bones approach, stripping out the controversial provisions, but
GOP conferees initially resisted.
“What would the bill amount to if we take out capital punishment?” asked Senate Judiciary ranking Republican
Thurmond.
But Republicans gave in when a series of votes made it evident that agreement on a broad bill was unlikely.
Members fell to bickering over which party deserved the blame for failing to approve a broader bill.  Republicans
condemned Democrats for refusing to accept the death-penalty and habeas corpus provisions while Democrats
lambasted GOP members for resisting controls on semiautomatic assault-style weapons.
Thurmond proposed that conferees remove from the bill all  provisions relating to habeas corpus petitions and racial
justice. That failed 3–5 among Senate conferees.
7/3/09 12:16 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 18 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal90-1113148&type=hitlist&num=2
Florida's McCollum proposed a similar deal that failed among House conferees, 4–6. Because liberal Democrats
dominated the House delegation, the conferees' votes did not reflect positions already adopted by the House as a whole
during its consideration of the bill.
In another problem area, the House conferees refused to accept a Senate offer to accept the racial-justice provision if
the House would accept the assault-guns provision. That idea failed, 4–6 — with Democrats Brooks and Crime
Subcommittee Chairman Hughes joining the four Republicans in voting to nix it.
In the end, the controversial death-penalty and guns provisions were dropped, and a bill finally completed late on the
evening of Oct. 26.
“It became clear that no possible agreement could be reached on these major issues,” Senate Judiciary Chairman
Biden said afterward.
Floor Action
The stripped-down bill went first to the Senate, where Biden told colleagues Oct. 27 that he was “frustrated and
disappointed that we could not get a bill” dealing with the major issues. But he insisted that the remaining
provisions — including the S&L fraud package, child-abuse provisions, law enforcement assistance, debt-collection
procedures, and stiffened penalties for use of steroids — added up to “a crime bill that merits [senators'] support
nonetheless.”
Republicans Thurmond and Alan K. Simpson, Wyo., joined in criticizing the omissions. Thurmond said the public
should be “outraged,” while Simpson said it was “a crime that after all the work we have done…, our efforts have
been cast aside in the rush to complete some crime bill that will pass.”
But the speeches and statements by most senators recited only the positive accomplishments in the bill, and the
measure was passed without objection and forwarded to the House.
Later that evening, GOP House members took sharper aim at the removal of the death-penalty and habeas corpus
provisions.
“This was a strong anticrime bill” when it left the House, said Hyde, who had toughened the habeas corpus revision
with his floor amendment. “It left here as Arnold Schwarzenegger and came back as Woody Allen.”
Brandishing a copy of the 300-page bill, New Hampshire's Douglas said, “The only way a murderer has to fear this
crime bill is if someone throws it at him….” And Pennsylvania's Gekas, who had worked to toughen the death-
penalty provisions in committee and on the floor, sarcastically congratulated death-penalty opponents for having
“thwarted the will of the American people.”
Democrats gamely defended the bill. Brooks and Hughes rattled off the provisions that had survived in conference,
saying they added up to an important and strong anticrime measure. “To suggest that that is not an important
anticrime meausre, I think, is unfair,” Hughes concluded.
On a roll call vote, the bill passed 313–1, with only Gekas voting against it.
Signed by Bush
Bush reiterated the Republican lawmakers' complaints in signing the bill Nov. 29.
He noted that in 1989 he had offered an anticrime package that included death-penalty, habeas corpus,
exclusionary rule, and gun-crime provisions.
“Despite the fact that each of these proposals passed one or both Houses of Congress,” Bush said in a written
statement, “none is included in the legislation I am signing today. At the eleventh hour, these reforms were stripped
from the crime bill by the conference committee.”
Bush said he was “pleased with the tools” the bill did provide against S&L fraud and also welcomed the debt-
collection, child-abuse and child pornography provisions. But he closed by urging Congress to return to the issue in
1991. “The American people deserve tough, new laws to help us prevail in the fight against drugs and crime.”
Features
Lawmakers Divided on Court Rulings That Curb Death Penalty Challenges
Death row appeals, a perennially divisive issue that held up action on the 1990 crime bill, saw more action in the
Supreme Court than in Congress.
That complicated the task as members tried to strike a balance between their traditional election-year toughness on
defendants and the desire of some lawmakers, many in leadership positions, to rein in a court they believed was too
harsh on defendants' rights.
A key question was whether a death row defendant should have the benefit of a favorable court opinion in another
case after his own conviction had become final. The court in 1989 and 1990 generally barred inmates from using
subsequent court decisions to challenge their convictions in habeas corpus petitions.
7/3/09 12:16 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 19 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal90-1113148&type=hitlist&num=2
To some Democrats in Congress, the majority was trying to gut the habeas corpus process. They believed that for
the ultimate punishment, speed and finality should take a back seat to thorough, if lengthy, review.
Leading this side in crime bill negotiations were Reps. William J. Hughes, D-N.J., chairman of the House Judiciary
Subcommittee on Crime, and Robert W. Kastenmeier, D-Wis., chairman of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Courts,
Intellectual Property and the Administration of Justice. Their provisions to counter the court were stripped from the
bill (HR 5269) on the House floor Oct. 4. The Senate bill (S 1970) had no comparable provision.
At the same time, other members, primarily Republicans, wanted to greatly restrict the habeas corpus process. The
average time from conviction to execution, according to a Hill-established study panel, was more than eight years.
These members said that although the court imposed new restrictions on inmates, they wanted to set in law time
limits for appeals and confine the grounds on which an inmate could press his challenge.
A leader on this side was Henry J. Hyde, R-Ill., who got the House to amend its bill to allow inmates only one chance
to make habeas corpus claims in federal court. The Bush administration also pressed to curtail the process.
Many others fell in the middle, saying the existing appeals process was too lengthy, but wanting to restore the more
lenient standard for retroactive application of court opinions that helped an inmate.
Some questioned whether, with the Supreme Court's active interest in habeas corpus, lawmakers who wanted to
hem in the appeals process even needed to enter the fray.
Leslie Harris, chief legislative counsel of the American Civil Liberties Union's Washington office, said, “As a political
matter, Congress can still say it wants habeas corpus reform, but the court has already done what people have
been pushing for and worse.”
Even some members who wanted more limits on the appeals process said Congress should step aside and leave
the matter to the courts.
In 1988, during consideration of the omnibus drug bill (PL 100–690), Congress failed to compromise on habeas
corpus and set up a study panel instead. The panel, led by retired Supreme Court Justice Lewis F. Powell, Jr.,
subsequently recommended that prisoners get a sixmonth period for filing a writ of habeas corpus, after exhausting
state court appeals.
One round of federal habeas corpus petitions would be permitted. Hyde's amendment was drawn largely from this
proposal. (1989 Almanac, p. 259)
Critical court decisions in 1989–90 that limited death row defendants' appeals were decided 5–4. In the majority
were Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justices Byron R. White, Sandra Day O'Connor, Antonin Scalia and
Anthony M. Kennedy. Dissenting were Justices William J. Brennan, Jr., Thurgood Marshall, Harry A. Blackmun and
John Paul Stevens.
Teague v. Lane, a black man objected to his trial by an all-white jury; the prosecutor had used peremptory strikes to
eliminate black jurors. The defendant based his petition in part on a high court ruling, after his conviction, allowing
challenge of a jury and review of peremptory strikes. The court decided Feb. 22, 1989, that new constitutional rules of
criminal procedure should not be applied retroactively unless the change went to the fundamental fairness of how a trial
was conducted. In this case, White did not fully support the court's opinion but found the habeas limit acceptable.
Saffle v. Parks, an inmate whose conviction and death sentence became final in 1983 claimed that an instruction in the
penalty phase of his trial, telling the jury to avoid any influence of sympathy, violated the Eighth Amendment. He cited a
1987 court decision finding the antisympathy instruction unconstitutional. The court ruled March 5, 1990, that good-faith
interpretations of legal principles at the time of a conviction could stand even when later rulings contradicted them.
Butler v. McKellar, a defendant tried to get his conviction overturned based on a new court ruling that said if a suspect
had asked for a lawyer in one inquiry, he could not be interrogated by police, without counsel, in another. The court, in
another March 5 decision, held that a defendant could not challenge his conviction via a habeas corpus petition based
on a new constitutional rule that a state appeals court could not reasonably have predicted at the time of the defendant's
direct appeal.
Rehnquist wrote for the majority that federal courts should not second-guess “reasonable, good faith interpretations of
existing precedents made by state courts even though they are shown to be contrary to later decisions.” Dissenting
justices criticized the opinion, saying that inmates would languish in jail or die “because state courts were reasonable,
even though wrong.”
Sawyer v. Smith, a defendant challenged his death sentence based on the prosecutor's telling jurors that even if they
recommended execution, they were not responsible for the sentence.
A 1985 ruling in a subsequent case prohibited the death sentence when jurors were misled about their role in
capital punishment. The court ruled June 21, 1990, that a defendant was not entitled to federal habeas corpus relief
based on a new court ruling in another case unless the principle of the new case was “fundamental to the integrity
of the criminal proceeding.”
In the end, the habeas corpus issue was too controversial for House and Senate conferees to resolve. The
revisions approved by both chambers were dropped in conference, along with the expansion of the federal death
7/3/09 12:16 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 20 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal90-1113148&type=hitlist&num=2
revisions approved by both chambers were dropped in conference, along with the expansion of the federal death
penalty. Lawmakers on both sides of the aisle complained about the deletions, but the stripped-down bill cleared
Congress on Oct. 27.
Bush signed the bill Nov. 29, but voiced regret that it lacked “comprehensive reform of habeas corpus proceedings
that continue to nullify State death penalty laws through repetitive hearings and endless delays.”
1990 Crime Control Act: Major Provisions
Following are major provisions of the Crime Control Act of 1990 (S 3266 — PL 101 – 647 ) as cleared by
Congress on Oct. 27 and signed into law by President Bush on Nov. 29.
Financial institutions. The law raised the civil and criminal penalties for financial fraud and other wrongdoing. At the
extreme, defendants who received $ 5 million or more in gross receipts from a continuing financial enterprise during any
two-year period could get a fine of $ 10 million ($ 20 million for organizations) and a maximum sentence of life in prison.
The law also enhanced the ability of federal banking agencies and the Justice Department to seize assets fraudulently
obtained from banks and savings and loans. A new office of special counsel for financial institutions fraud was to be
established at the Justice Department. New prosecutors, FBI agents and Secret Service agents were authorized.
Prisons. The law authorized $ 220 million for states to develop alternatives to incarcerating inmates in already-crowded
prison buildings. It also gave the Bureau of Prisons the authority to set up a shock incarceration program (known as
“boot camp”). The program would enforce a highly regimented schedule of discipline, physical training, labor, drill and
ceremony characteristic of military basic training.
Separately, the act stated that all federal inmates should work, except for security, medical or disciplinary reasons.
Child abuse. The law provided a statutory option and procedures for children who were witnesses at an abuse trial to
testify outside the courtroom through a two-way closed-circuit television.
It authorized $ 10 million toward training for judges, prosecutors and child advocates on child-abuse issues. The aim
was to prevent child abuse and better investigate and prosecute offenders.
The law also made possession of child pornography a federal offense and required producers to keep a record of the
age of people appearing in hard-core pornography.
Steroids. Anabolic steroids were to be covered under federal laws that applied to cocaine and other controlled
substances, thereby increasing the penalties for steroid trafficking and allowing the Drug Enforcement Administration
(DEA) to take charge of steroids investigations. The penalty for illegal steroids trade increased from three years in prison
to a maximum of 20 years. New production and recordkeeping requirements were imposed on companies that made
steroids.
Law enforcement, rural drug-abuse funding. The law authorized up to $ 900 million in new federal aid for local law
enforcement and called for an increase in federal agents, including 1,000 new DEA agents.
It also authorized $ 20 million for funding to help police and prosecutors in rural areas investigate illegal drug-trafficking.
Debt collection. The law put in place a uniform federal system for collection of all debts owed the federal government,
replacing a system that relied on differing state laws.
Money laundering. The Treasury secretary was required to report to Congress every two years during the following
four years on international money-laundering activities; investigations and prosecutions; and criminal indictments
stemming from information provided by financial institutions.
The Treasury secretary was directed to appoint a task force to study the methods and costs of printing a serial number
on U.S. currency that could be read by electronic scanning.
Also, the attorney general was given authority to transfer property civilly or criminally forfeited as part of a money-
laundering offense to any foreign country that participated in the seizure of the property, provided the secretary of State
agreed to the transfer and it was part of an agreement between the United States and the foreign country.
Drug-free school zones. The law authorized an additional $ 15 million to train school personnel on drug-use
intervention and counseling. It provided $ 1.5 million for a model drug-free school zone project. The goal was to prevent
drug activities within schools and their surrounding environments.
Assault Weapons Ban Is Dropped; Waiting Period on Handguns Blocked
Gun control proponents gave a scare to the gun lobby in 1990, but ended up failing in three separate efforts to
enact new federal restrictions on firearms.
A ban on assault-style weapons was included in the Senate's version of an omnibus anticrime bill (S 1970), but
rejected by the House and stripped from the final measure (S 3266 — PL 101 – 647 ).
Two other gun control bills languished in the House.
The House Judiciary Committee on June 12 approved a bill (HR 4225) to outlaw certain semiautomatic weapons,
but it was never brought to the floor.
7/3/09 12:16 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 21 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal90-1113148&type=hitlist&num=2
A month later, the Judiciary Committee approved a bill (HR 467) to require a seven-day waiting period before a
person could buy a handgun. But the so-called Brady bill was also never brought to the floor. The bill was named
for former White House press secretary James S. Brady — wounded in a 1981 assassination attempt on President
Ronald Reagan — and his wife Sarah Brady, who lobbied relentlessly for the measure.
Gun control opponents had traditionally held sway on the floors of both chambers, despite polls showing broad
public support for tighter regulation of firearms. The major law on the books, the Gun Control Act of 1968 (PL 90–
618), owed its enactment to the reaction in Congress and among the public to the assassinations that year of the
Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Sen. Robert F. Kennedy, D-N.Y. (Congress and the Nation Vol. II, p. 328)
Efforts to relax the law, led by the National Rifle Association (NRA), began almost immediately afterward and finally
bore fruit in 1986. Congress that year passed legislation (PL 99–360) that weakened the 1968 act by lifting the ban
on interstate sales of rifles and shotguns and limiting the number of people who were required to get licenses to sell
firearms. (1986 Almanac, p. 82)
In 1988, the NRA was able to pressure Congress to keep the Brady bill out of an omnibus crime measure. Instead,
the bill (PL 100–690) contained a provision to require the attorney general to develop a felon identification system.
(1988 Almanac, p. 85; NRA, p. 100)
Congress in 1990 showed signs of bucking the NRA's powerful lobbying network, but in the end gun control
proponents lacked the clout needed to push any of their measures to enactment. The House Rules Committee
agreed to let sponsors of the assault weapons ban bring HR 4225 up after the chamber acted on the omnibus crime
bill. But backers of the bill did not try for a floor vote because they knew they lacked support — as indicated by the
House's floor vote Oct. 4 to water down semiautomatic weapons restrictions already in the crime bill. (Crime bill, p.
486)
The Brady bill did not get a rule for floor action because of opposition from Speaker Thomas S. Foley, D-Wash., and
other House leaders. Supporters' ability to muster the votes for passage was doubtful anyway.
ASSAULT WEAPONS BAN
The House Judiciary Committee on June 12 approved, 21–15, a bill (HR 4225) to ban U.S.-made assault-style
semiautomatic weapons (H Rept 101 –621).
The bill would have required the Treasury secretary to outlaw domestic semiautomatics that did not meet the
“sporting purposes” test under which foreign-made assault weapons were barred. About 43 types of foreign
weapons had been banned under the test set in 1989 by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (BATF).
A spokesman said the bureau had no estimate of how many U.S.-made semiautomatics would be banned if HR
4225 became law. However, in January, the agency issued a memorandum to the U.S. Customs Service saying that
12 domestically produced rifles did not meet a sporting purposes test.
Gun control advocates counted the committee's action as their second victory in four weeks.
On May 23, the Senate had narrowly voted against stripping from its version of the anticrime bill (S 1970) provisions
that would ban the manufacture, sale and possession of nine semiautomatic assault-style weapons, five of which
already had been administratively banned under the sporting test for foreign firearms.
Senators initially voted 48–52 against an amendment by Orrin G. Hatch, R-Utah, to strike the provisions. Immediately
afterward, a motion by Minority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan., to reconsider the vote failed by just one vote, 49–50.
(Votes 103, 104, p. 24-S)
Sarah Brady, serving as chairwoman of Handgun Control Inc., said the Senate vote and House committee action
showed that lawmakers were “ready to help our law enforcement officers win the drug war by taking killing machines
off America's streets.”
But NRA lobbyist David Conover predicted HR 4225 would lose on the floor. “We think, as in the past, the vote in
the Judiciary Committee will not be representative of votes taken on the floor,” Conover said.
To Sporting Test
The sponsor of HR 4225, William J. Hughes, D-N.J., said the test he proposed was a natural outgrowth of the Bush
administration's action against foreign firearms. “There is no difference between foreign and domestically made
militarylike semiautomatic rifles in either their firepower or the devastation they can create,” he said.
But the NRA's Conover said the bill would allow the Treasury Department to “pretty much ban any weapon by
narrowly defining its sporting purpose test.”
Under existing law, the Treasury secretary had authority to bar importation of weapons not “particularly suitable for
or readily adaptable to sporting purposes.”
The secretary would be able to evaluate U.S.-made weapons in the same fashion under HR 4225. Those that failed
the test could not be bought, sold or owned in the future, but people who already owned weapons could keep them.
7/3/09 12:16 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 22 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal90-1113148&type=hitlist&num=2
Factors already considered included whether the rifle could accept a grenade launcher or large-capacity magazine,
or could accept a bayonet.
“These were among the specific factors used in compiling the list of banned foreign-made semiautomatic rifles, and
they would be among the factors applied to domestically made semiautomatic rifles,” Hughes said.
The bill also would have made it illegal for anyone to own or sell an ammunition-feeding device with a capacity of
more than seven rounds. Under the bill, the Treasury secretary would have 60 days to issue a list of the firearms to
be banned.
In an effort to reduce violence associated with international drug trafficking, the bill also would have prohibited the
exportation of domestically banned guns except by the U.S. government to a foreign government.
Breakdown of Vote
The 21–15 vote to send the bill to the floor was largely along party lines, with Democrats favoring the bill and
Republicans opposing it.
Three Democrats crossed party lines to vote against the bill: committee Chairman Jack Brooks, Texas; Rick Boucher,
Va.; and Harley O. Staggers Jr., W.Va.
Two Republicans voted for the bill: Tom Campbell, Calif., and Mike DeWine, Ohio.
Approval of the bill came after the committee had rejected, 16–20, an amendment by Bill  McCollum, R-Fla., that
would have allowed firearms to qualify for sporting purposes if they could “reasonably be construed as useful for
recreational purposes, including hunting, competition, target shooting and collecting.” Opponents said the definition
was too broad.
Final Action
The Judiciary Committee's markup was the high-water mark for the assault-weapons ban in the House.
The Rules Committee agreed to make HR 4225 in order after the chamber completed action on the omnibus crime
bill (HR 5269). But with time in the session running out, Hughes and other backers lacked the votes to push for
floor action.
Instead, the House dealt with the semiautomatics issue during Oct. 4 debate on its version of the crime bill,
softening restrictive firearms language in the measure.
The Judiciary Committee's version of the crime measure would have made it illegal to use either imported or
domestic parts to make an AK-47, Uzi or any other foreign assault-style semiautomatic already banned by the
administration.
But members weakened it on the floor, allowing domestic gun makers to assemble any semiautomatic rifle or
shotgun that was identical to any rifle or shotgun already banned from import.
Under the amendment, by Jolene Unsoeld, D-Wash., only firearms assembled with foreign parts would be illegal. The
vote was 257–172. (Vote 416, p. 136-H)
In the end, all of the firearms provisions were stripped from the bill that both chambers approved Oct. 27 and
President Bush signed Nov. 29.
7-DAY WAITING PERIOD
The House Judiciary Committee on July 24 approved, 27–9, the measure (HR 467) that would have required a
seven-day waiting period for people who wanted to buy handguns (H Rept 101–691).
Officially titled the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act, the bill would have given local law enforcement
agencies a week to check a prospective gun-buyer's background.
If the buyer's profile revealed no grounds for blocking the sale — such as a felony conviction — the purchase could
proceed.
The law would have applied only to private citizens making a purchase from a licensed handgun dealer.
James Brady, wheelchair-bound since the 1981 shooting, and Sarah Brady were both in the audience when the
committee voted to send the bill to the House floor.
Breakdown of Voting
Eight of the committee's 14 Republicans joined all but three committee Democrats in voting for the bill.
Opposing the measure were Democrats Brooks, Staggers, and, by proxy, Boucher, and Republicans McCollum;
William E. Dannemeyer, Calif.; Lamar Smith, Texas; Chuck Douglas, N.H.; Carlos J. Moorhead, Calif.; and, by proxy,
7/3/09 12:16 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 23 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal90-1113148&type=hitlist&num=2
George W. Gekas, Pa.
McCollum, the Crime Subcommittee's ranking Republican, led the opposition. He proposed an amendment that
would have stricken the waiting period. Instead, it would have required states to spend 5 percent of their federal
anticrime funds to keep criminal justice records.
The amendment failed, 12–24.
McCollum's amendment also would have required states to develop within a year a “point of purchase” telephone
verification system that would allow gun dealers to check the buyer immediately.
“Why take seven days to do something that can be done in seven minutes?” McCollum argued.
But Hughes said that the amendment was simply a ploy to “gut the bill” and that bill opponents were concerned only
with “the inconvenience” of making gun buyers wait seven days.
“How about Jim Brady and his inconvenience? The waiting period is the only thing we've got to buy some time to
check the records.” Hughes said.
Other members criticized the NRA's opposition to the bill. Conservative Republican F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. of
Wisconsin lambasted the NRA for sending out “scurrilous mailings” to fight handgun legislation.
Final Action
Supporters hoped to offer HR 467 as an amendment to the omnibus anticrime bill. But the Rules Committee, which
had allowed 46 amendments to that measure, barred consideration of a seven-day waiting period amendment. And
the Rules panel never gave the bill a separate rule for floor consideration.
Police groups accused the Democratic leadership, particularly Speaker Foley, of shutting out gun control activists.
Foley said the bill was too controversial to bring to the floor at the end of a protracted session, but promised early
consideration in the 102nd Congress.
Document Citation
"Bush Signs Stripped-Down Crime Bill." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal90-1113148. Originally
published in CQ Almanac 1990 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1991). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal90-
1113148 (accessed July 3, 2009).
Document ID: cqal90-1113148
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal90-1113148
© 1991, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
