7/9/09 4:21 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal05-766-20106-1042463&type=hitlist&num=13
Document Outline
Agriculture programs
Commodity Programs
Conservation
Rural Development, Energy and Research
Deposit Insurance
Digital TV
Medicare
Medicare Part A
Medicare Part B
Provisions Related To Part A and B
Medicaid
Asset transfers
Prescription Drugs
Fraud, Waste and Abuse
Cost Sharing and Benefit Reductions
State Financing
Spending Increases
Katrina Relief
Human Resources
Welfare
Child Support
Child Welfare
Supplemental Security Income
Higher Education
Pension Plan Insurance
Other Provisions
Budget Reconciliation Provisions
An article from CQ Almanac 2005
Following are the main provisions of the budget reconciliation law (S 1932 — PL 109 - 171 ), which President
Bush signed into law Feb. 8, 2006.
Agriculture programs
Changes to agriculture and rural development programs were expected to yield net savings of $2.7 billion over five
years.
Commodity Programs
Crop payments. Advances to eligible farmers on their annual direct payments for certain crops were reduced to 40
percent in the 2006 crop year, down from 50 percent under prior law. The advance could be no more than 22 percent for
2007. The law affected only the timing of the direct payment, not the amount. (Savings: $1.5 billion in 2007)
Cotton subsidy. The upland cotton Step-2 subsidy, which was successfully challenged by Brazil in the World Trade
Organization, was eliminated. (Savings: $282 million over five years)
Milk Income Loss Contract. The popular milk subsidy program, which primarily aided small- and medium-sized dairy
farms, was extended through Sept. 30, 2007. (Cost: $998 million over five years)
Conservation
Watershed Rehabilitation Program. The law limited funds for the Watershed Rehabilitation program, which provided
aid to communities to rehabilitate aging local dams, and for the Natural Resources Conservation Service, which assisted
 
7/9/09 4:21 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal05-766-20106-1042463&type=hitlist&num=13
aid to communities to rehabilitate aging local dams, and for the Natural Resources Conservation Service, which assisted
projects to upgrade or remove dams. It prohibited the carryover of unused prior mandatory funding as of Oct. 1, 2006.
(Savings: $210 million over five years)
Conservation Security Program. The program, which provided financial and technical assistance to promote
conservation on land used for agriculture production, was reauthorized through fiscal 2011, but the law limited spending
to $2 billion for fiscal 2006 through 2010 and $5.7 billion for fiscal 2006 through 2015. (Savings: $649 million over five
years)
Environmental Qualities Incentives Program. The law extended the program through 2010 and limited payments to
$450,000 in any six-year period. EQIP provides financial and technical aid to farmers and ranchers who follow
conservation practices in areas where soil, water or other natural resources were threatened. (Savings: $75 million over
five years)
Rural Development, Energy and Research
Rural development programs. The law canceled unused funds from years prior to fiscal 2007 for rural development
programs, including rural broadband grants, value-added agricultural product development grants, rural business grants
and rural firefighter grants. It canceled fiscal 2007 funding for rural community grants. (Savings: $399 million over five
years)
Research. Funding for a competitive grant program that supported research, extension and education activities for U.S.
agriculture was eliminated in fiscal 2007 through 2009. (Savings: $620 million over five years)
Energy programs. Funding for a program that made loans and grants to farmers to purchase renewable energy
systems or to make energy efficiency improvements was limited to $3 million in fiscal 2007. (Savings: $20 million over
five years)
Deposit Insurance
Changes to the deposit insurance system that increased coverage for depositors and allowed the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (FDIC) to alter the premiums it charged banks and savings and loan associations were
expected to produce a net savings of $250 million over the next five years. Most of the changes would have
negligible effect until after 2010.
Merging BIF and SAIF. The law required the FDIC to merge the separate funds that protected bank and savings and
loan depositors no later than the start of the calendar quarter 90 days after enactment, which occurred Feb. 8. The
assets and liabilities of the Bank Insurance Fund and the Savings Association Insurance Fund would be transferred to a
new Deposit Insurance Fund that would cover all insured banks and thrifts.
Increase in deposit insurance amounts. Beginning in April  2010 and every five years after, the FDIC was required to
determine, together with the National Credit Union Administration (which insured credit union depositors) whether an
increase in deposit insurance levels to cover inflation was warranted. The agencies would have to consider the financial
health of the Deposit Insurance Fund, economic conditions and whether an increase would cause the amount of
insurance fund reserves to fall below 1.15 percent of estimated insured deposits. If an increase was deemed warranted,
it would be calculated by the change in the personal consumption expenditures price index published by the Commerce
Department. The increase was to be limited to increments of $10,000 and applied to all covered accounts. The increase
was to take effect Jan. 1 of the following year, unless Congress acts by July 1 to block it. (Cost: $50 million over five
years.)
Deposit insurance for individual retirement accounts. The law also increased deposit insurance coverage for
individual retirement account holdings to $250,000 from $100,000, and permitted inflationary increases after 2010 for
these accounts.
Deposit insurance premium assessments. The FDIC was permitted to adjust collections of insurance premiums to
keep the value of the Deposit Insurance Fund between 1.15 percent and 1.5 percent of estimated insured deposits
(compared the previous requirement of a flat 1.25 percent ratio). In setting the insurance fund's ratio of assets to
deposits, the FDIC was required to consider the potential for losses based on historical patterns and estimates for the
future, and on general economic conditions. In setting premium assessments for banks and thrifts, including
assessments based on the riskiness of specific institutions, the FDIC was authorized to consider the effect of
assessment levels on the earnings and capital of insured institutions and any other factor deemed appropriate. The law
allowed the FDIC to grant a one-time credit to banks and thrifts that paid assessments before 1997, which could be
used to cover future assessments. (Savings: $300 million over five years.)
Digital TV
Provisions allowing the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to auction analog spectrum vacated by
television broadcasters were projected to bring in about $10 billion. The law directed $2.6 billion of the proceeds to
other uses, leaving $7.4 billion over five years to be used for deficit reduction.
Reclaiming spectrum. The law set a deadline of Feb. 17, 2009, for full-power television stations to return the
frequencies used for analog broadcasts to the FCC. The stations had other spectrum for broadcasting digital signals.
7/9/09 4:21 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal05-766-20106-1042463&type=hitlist&num=13
Spectrum auctions. The FCC was required to begin the process of auctioning off the reclaimed spectrum to wireless
carriers and others by Jan. 28, 2008. The auction proceeds would be deposited in a newly created fund, the Digital
Television Transition and Public Safety Fund, by June 30, 2008. On Sept. 30, 2009, $7.4 billion was to be transferred
from the fund to the Treasury and treated as offsetting receipts.
Converter box subsidies. Up to $1.5 billion in spectrum proceeds would be set aside to subsidize digital-to-analog
converter boxes for the roughly 21 million Americans who still relied on over-the-air television broadcasts and would
otherwise see their television screens go dark after the transition. The Commerce Department was authorized to
distribute up to two $40 coupons per household to help cover the cost of converter boxes.
Public safety systems. Up to $1 billion would be set aside for a grant program to help public safety agencies purchase
and deploy interoperable communications systems.
Other uses of proceeds. The law also allocated: up to $156 million to build a unified national emergency alert and
tsunami warning system; $44 million to upgrade 911 emergency phone systems; $65 million to help eligible low-power
television stations purchase equipment to upgrade from analog to digital operations; $10 million to help eligible low-
power television stations purchase digital-to-analog conversion devices that would allow them to convert incoming
digital signals to analog format.
It also allocated $30 million in fiscal 2007 and 2008 for a temporary digital television broadcast system to serve New
York City until  a permanent facility could be built atop the planned Freedom Tower. An additional $30 million would go to
the Essential Air Service Program, which subsidizes commercial airline service in remote places, if funds appropriated to
operate the program equaled or exceeded $110 million for that fiscal year.
Spectrum licenses. The FCC was directed to assess $10 million in additional license fees in fiscal 2006, to be
deposited in the Treasury.
Medicare
Changes to Medicare, the federal health care program for the elderly and disabled, were projected to achieve $6.4
billion in net savings over five years. (Savings of less than $100 million are not indicated below.)
Medicare Part A
Hospital quality improvement. Hospitals that did not submit required quality data would get a lower increase in
payments beginning in fiscal 2007. Their increase would drop by 2.0 percent, rather than 0.4 percent under previous
law. (Savings: $300 million over five years)
Disproportionate share hospitals. Inpatient hospital stays for patients who were covered by Medicaid for other
services, but not for hospital inpatient services, would not count as Medicaid days for the purposes of calculating the
additional payments Medicare made to hospitals that served a large number of low-income patients. (Savings: $1.2
billion over five years.)
Skilled nursing facilities. Medicare was to reduce the percentage of its payments to skilled nursing facilities for
uncollected debts from 100 percent to 70 percent. Unpaid debts incurred by beneficiaries eligible for both Medicare and
Medicaid would be paid at 100 percent.
Inpatient rehabilitation facilities. The “75 percent rule” — which requires that 75 percent of patients in a hospital
classified as an “inpatient rehabilitation facility” have specified medical conditions — would begin in July 2008, instead of
July 2007. In July 2006, a 60 percent threshold would be in place. In July 2007, it would increase to 65 percent.
(Savings: $100 million over five years)
Gain-sharing demonstration. Up to six demonstration programs would be created to evaluate gain-sharing
agreements between hospitals and other providers beginning on Jan. 1, 2007. The practice allows doctors and hospitals
to share the savings from treating patients more efficiently.
Specialty hospitals. A moratorium on the enrollment of specialty hospitals in Medicare was extended for six months
from the date of enactment or until  the Health and Human Services (HHS) secretary issued a report containing a
strategic plan on how to handle the issue of physicians' investments in such hospitals and how such hospitals would
care for low-income patients. If the secretary did not issue the report within six months, the suspension would be
extended two more months.
Medicare Part B
Durable medical equipment. Beneficiaries would be required to assume ownership of rental durable medical goods
(excluding oxygen equipment) after 13 months of rental. For oxygen equipment, ownership would be required after 36
months. Medicaid could pay for service and maintenance if it was determined necessary. (Savings: $700 million over
five years)
Imaging services. The law reduced the reimbursement rate for imaging services by $2.8 billion over four years.
Reimbursement rates for imaging services conducted in a physician's office could not be greater than the rate paid to
7/9/09 4:21 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal05-766-20106-1042463&type=hitlist&num=13
Reimbursement rates for imaging services conducted in a physician's office could not be greater than the rate paid to
hospitals for the same service. Savings from reduced rates for multiple images of contiguous body parts in 2006 and
2007 could be used to reduce overall spending. (Savings: $2.8 billion over five years)
Ambulatory surgical centers. The law reduced Medicare payments to ambulatory care surgical centers to the rate
Medicare paid to hospitals, if the hospital payment rates were lower. (Savings: $300 million over five years)
Physician payments. The law froze Medicare payments to physicians at the 2005 level for 2006. Under prior law, the
payments would have fallen by 4.4 percent as of January 2006. (Cost: $7.3 billion over five years)
Dialysis services. The reimbursement rate for facilities providing end-stage renal disease services was increased by
1.6 percent in 2006. (Cost: $500 million over five years)
Means testing in Part B premiums. The law accelerated the phase-in of a scheduled increase in Medicare Part B
premiums for beneficiaries with incomes above certain levels. The phase-in was to begin in 2007 and be completed by
2009, instead of 2011. (Savings: $1.6 billion over five years)
Preventive screenings. Screenings to detect abdominal aortic aneurysms would be covered as part of the physical
exam for new Medicare beneficiaries who were at risk. The deductible in the Part B program would not apply to
screenings for colorectal cancer. (Cost: $200 million over five years)
Provisions Related To Part A and B
Home health payments. The law eliminated a scheduled 2.8 percent increase in home health care payments for 2006,
although it provided for a one-year 5 percent additional payment to rural home health providers in 2006. Starting in
2007, home health care providers would have their payments reduced by 2 percentage points if they did not report
required health care quality data to HHS.
Risk adjustment. Starting in 2007, payments to Medicare Advantage plans would be altered to take into account the
health status of the beneficiaries served in each plan, paying higher amounts for care of sicker patients. (Savings: $6.5
billion over five years)
Medicaid
Changes to Medicaid, the federal-state health program for the poor, were expected to reduce mandatory spending
by a net $6.9 billion over five years, while paying for $3.6 billion in new spending.
Asset transfers
The law was projected to save $2.4 billion over five years by increasing the penalties on people who transferred
their house or other assets for less than fair market value to qualify for nursing home care.
Five-year “look back.” States would look back five years, rather than three, when determining whether a senior
applying for Medicaid-funded nursing home care had transferred assets below fair value to qualify for Medicaid.
Penalty. Beneficiaries who made improper transfers would be penalized with a period of ineligibility for certain long-term
care services beginning the month following the date of the asset transfer or the date the senior became eligible for
Medicaid long-term care services, whichever was later.
Hardship waiver. If the ineligibility period deprived an individual of medical care that would endanger their health or life,
or deprive them of food or shelter, they could apply for a waiver of the penalty because of undue hardship.
Home equity. The law excluded individuals with more than $500,000 in home equity from eligibility for nursing home or
other long-term care coverage paid for by Medicaid. States could raise the limit to $750,000. Starting in 2011 the
amount would increase each year based on the consumer price index.
Prescription Drugs
Changes to payments for prescription drugs — mainly reducing Medicaid reimbursements to pharmacies — were
expected to reduce spending by $3.9 billion over five years.
Limit on pharmacy reimbursement. Medicaid would reimburse pharmacies for purchasing and dispensing multisource
prescription drugs for up to 250 percent of the average sales price, known as the “average manufacturers price” (AMP).
The AMP reimbursement rate takes into account the discounts and other savings that could be negotiated with
manufacturers. Formerly, pharmacies were reimbursed for up to 150 percent of the average manufacturers' published
price, known as “average wholesale price.”
A “multisource” drug was defined as a drug that had at least one other drug on the market that was therapeutically
7/9/09 4:21 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal05-766-20106-1042463&type=hitlist&num=13
A “multisource” drug was defined as a drug that had at least one other drug on the market that was therapeutically
equivalent.
Disclosure of AMP. The HHS secretary was required to give states access to monthly AMP data, which was previously
confidential.
Fraud, Waste and Abuse
Provisions to reduce fraud, waste and abuse were expected to save $822 million over five years; $528 million of that
was to be spent on education and other steps to improve the integrity of the program.
Third-party recovery. The law required states to do more to find a party responsible for paying outstanding claims
instead of relying on Medicaid as the payer of last resort.
State False Claims Act. States with laws that met certain requirements for handling false claims were allowed to
reduce by 10 percentage points the amount that they had to pay back to the federal government once the false claim
was discovered.
Education. States had to provide written explanations of fraud and whistleblower policies to providers that received
more that $5 million a year from Medicaid.
Proof of citizenship. The government would not reimburse states for a beneficiary who had not given a state proof of
U.S. citizenship. Immigrants who were eligible for benefits were exempt from this provision.
Medicaid Integrity Program. The HHS secretary could contract out duties such as reviewing audits, identifying
overpayments and providing education on proper payments.
Cost Sharing and Benefit Reductions
Allowing states to set higher premiums and cost-sharing payments and to offer limited benefits for some in Medicaid
was projected to reduce outlays by $3.2 billion over five years
Premiums and cost sharing. The law permitted states to charge premiums and require cost sharing by beneficiaries at
or above the poverty level, with some restrictions. Under prior law, premiums and enrollment fees were generally
prohibited and nominal cost sharing was limited to $3.
Under the new law, beneficiaries with incomes between 100 percent and 150 percent of the federal poverty line could
not be charged a premium. cost sharing could not exceed 10 percent of the cost of the service for families with incomes
between 100 percent and 150 percent of the poverty level, and 20 percent for families with incomes above 150 percent.
Total payments for the year could not exceed 5 percent of the family income.
Certain groups could not be subject to cost sharing for some services, such as pregnancy-related care and preventive
care for children under age 18.
Enforcement. States could allow providers to refuse to offer service or dispense a drug if cost-sharing payments were
not made at the time of service. If a beneficiary failed to pay premiums for 60 days, a state could terminate coverage.
Prescription drugs. States were allowed to waive or lower co-payments for “preferred drugs” and could not require
cost sharing from beneficiaries who otherwise were exempt from cost sharing. For drugs not designated as preferred
drugs on a state's formulary, a state could set higher cost sharing and co-payments and could impose cost sharing on
any beneficiary, even those who were otherwise exempt from cost sharing in the program. For beneficiaries with family
incomes below 150 percent of poverty, cost sharing could not exceed a set nominal amount. For beneficiaries with
family incomes above 150 percent of poverty, cost sharing could not exceed 20 percent of the cost of the drug.
Indexing. The nominal rate for cost sharing, previously $3, would be indexed to the medical cost component of the
consumer price index.
Emergency room. States were allowed to increase cost sharing for certain beneficiaries who used the emergency
room for non-urgent care. The law provided $50 million in mandatory funds for payments over four years to states to
make non-emergency health services available and accessible.
Alternative benefit packages. The law allowed states to replace the traditional Medicaid benefits package with a
reduced-benefit, or “benchmark” plan, for certain populations. The plans had to provide basic services, such as
physician and hospital coverage, and be actuarially equivalent to one of the following benchmarks: standard Blue
Cross/Blue Shield Plan offered in the Federal Employees Health Benefit Plan, health coverage offered to state
employees, coverage offered by the largest commercial health maintenance organization in the state or a different
coverage plan approved by the HHS States could not require certain beneficiaries to participate in the benchmark plans,
including seniors who were poor enough to qualify for Medicaid and who qualified for Medicare because they were over
65. Other exempted groups included pregnant women who had to be covered by state Medicaid programs, patients in
Medicaid-funded hospice facilities or receiving long-term care, some children in foster care and blind or otherwise
disabled individuals.
7/9/09 4:21 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal05-766-20106-1042463&type=hitlist&num=13
State Financing
Changes to the rules for state financing of Medicaid programs, which affected the amount of federal grants, were
estimated to save $1.2 billion over five years.
Restrictions on provider taxes. The law required states that levied taxes on Medicaid managed care organizations
and used the proceeds to help pay the state's share of Medicaid spending, to apply the tax to all managed care
organizations, not just those that served Medicaid recipients. Generally, the organizations that paid the taxes got the
money back in the form of increased Medicaid payments. But the increased payments also generated increased federal
matching funds, and the states often kept the difference. The change was expected to save $435 over five years, and
$2.9 billion over 10 years as states came under pressure to eliminate the taxes.
Case management costs. States would only be able to charge Medicaid for case management services that were not
covered under other programs such as foster care, saving a net $760 million over five years.
Spending Increases
The law included a number of provisions that were projected to increase spending under Medicaid by a combined
total of $3.6 billion over five years.
Medicaid buy-in. Children with disabilities whose families earned more than the cut-off for Supplemental Social Security
Income, but less than 300 percent of the poverty level, would be eligible for Medicaid benefits beginning in 2008. States
choosing to offer these benefits were allowed to charge a premium and parents would be required to enroll in any
available employer-sponsored coverage for themselves while the child was on Medicaid. (Cost: $1.4 billion over five
years)
Home and community-based care. Up to 10 states could participate in a five-year demonstration project to provide
home and community-based services to children who would be hospitalized otherwise. (Cost: $766 million over five
years)
Health information centers. The law increased funding for health information centers that assisted families of children
with special needs by a total of $22 million over five years.
“Money follows the person” demonstration. The law authorized a demonstration project under which the federal
government would pay a higher share of costs than under existing law for the first 12 months of long-term care services
provided in the home or community for a person who was formerly in a nursing home. (Cost: $340 million over five
years)
Health Opportunity Accounts. Up to 10 states were allowed to participate in a demonstration program to set up health
opportunity accounts that could be used by Medicaid beneficiaries who volunteered for the program to pay for medical
treatment. Once a deductible was reached, beneficiaries would be covered under the state Medicaid program. States
could not set a deductible that was higher than 110 percent of the state contribution to the account. States could
contribute up to $2,500 for each adult and $1,000 for each child into a family's account. The programs had to disclose
the cost of the care and encourage prevention and discourage overuse of health services.
If beneficiaries became ineligible for Medicaid, they could keep the accounts for future health care costs. States could
also choose to allow the beneficiaries to use the accounts to pay for job training.
Medicaid transformation grants. The HHS secretary could provide extra funding to state Medicaid programs that
adopted innovative methods for reducing medical errors; improving collection of payments and reducing fraud, waste
and abuse; increasing the use of generic drugs; implementing a medication risk management program for beneficiaries
who use a number of prescription drugs; and increasing the use university-based hospitals and clinics by the uninsured.
Katrina Relief
The law appropriated $2.1 billion to be used by the HHS secretary to help with health care costs for residents of
states evacuated because of Hurricane Katrina.
Human Resources
Changes in welfare law, child support and child welfare provisions added up to a net savings of $1.5 billion over five
years.
Welfare
The law reauthorized the 1996 Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) law (PL 104-193) at a projected
cost of $374 million over five years. Viewed over a 10-year period, however, the changes were projected to save
$344 million.
7/9/09 4:21 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal05-766-20106-1042463&type=hitlist&num=13
TANF block grant. The main TANF block grant to states was reauthorized through fiscal 2010 at the existing level of
$16.5 billion per year. Supplemental grants were reauthorized through fiscal 2008 at $319 million per year.
Work requirements. The law retained a 30-hour-per-week work requirement for individuals, but it altered what was
known as the caseload reduction credit so that states would have to ensure that at least 50 percent of their welfare
recipients were engaged in work. For the first time, the law applied work participation rules to state welfare programs
that were funded entirely with state dollars, such as programs for people with disabilities or drug addictions and two-
parent families.
Marriage promotion. The law authorized grants of $150 million per year to states through fiscal 2010 for activities to
promote “healthy marriage” and “responsible fatherhood.”
Child care. The law extended grants to states to provide child care subsidies to low-income families through 2010 and
increased funding by a total of $1 billion over five years, for total funding of $2.9 billion per year.
Child Support
Changes to child support enforcement were expected to save a net $1.5 billion over five years.
Federal matching payments. The law barred states from using federal incentive payments to receive matching child
support enforcement funds, beginning in 2008. States were still required to spend the incentive awards on child support
services, but they could not also count the money as a match for additional federal funds. (Savings: a net $1.6 billion
over five years)
Distribution of child support payments. The law provided incentives to encourage states to give TANF families more
of the child support payments collected on their behalf. Previously, families that applied for TANF had to allow the state
to collect their child support payments; the money was divided between the state and federal government as partial
repayment for the welfare assistance. The new law allowed states to pay up to $100 a month ($200 for families with two
or more children) of the child support collections to the TANF family. The federal government would compensate states
for part of the funds they lost as a result. The law also simplified an existing requirement that states distribute to former
TANF families child support arrearages from before and after the family was in the TANF program. (Combined cost:
$423 million over five years)
New enforcement rules. To increase collections, parents would be denied passports if they owed more than $2,500 in
past-due child support payments, down from $5,000 under prior law. A triennial update of child support orders was
required, and insurance payment data could be used as ammunition against non-custodial parents who owe child
support.
Annual fee. States were required to collect a new $25 annual fee from families that had never been on TANF but that
had received at least $500 in child support services in a year. The states could retain part of the money.
Paternity tests. The federal share of the cost for paternity tests dropped from 90 percent to 66 percent.
Child Welfare
Changes to child welfare programs were projected to save a net $320 million over five years. However, the law
increased spending on two programs — funding for family courts and a program intended to keep troubled families
together, or if that was impossible to promote adoption of abused and neglected children.
Limitation of matching funds. The law limited states' claims to matching funds for administrative costs related to
placing abused and neglected children in unlicensed foster homes. States had to license the home within 12 months of
the placement. (Savings: $174 million over five years)
Eligibility for foster care aid. The law limited eligibility for foster care and adoption assistance for about 4,000 children
each month in nine Western states who would be subject to a 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruling. The court had
broadened those states' latitude to determine eligibility for such assistance in cases in which children lived with a relative
outside the home from which they were removed. (Savings: $380 million over five years.)
Mandatory spending increases. The law provided $20 million a year for new grants to improve the ability of state
courts to track child abuse and neglect cases and train judges and other court personnel in child welfare law. Spending
authority for the Safe and Stable Families program was increased. (Cost: $234 million over five years)
Supplemental Security Income
Disability reviews. The Social Security Administration was directed to review at least 20 percent of disability claims
approved by state-level Disability Determination Service offices in fiscal 2006, rising to 40 percent in fiscal 2007 and 50
percent in fiscal 2008. (Savings: $287 million)
Retroactive benefits. The threshold for paying retroactive benefits owed to the disabled because of delays in approval
was lowered. Any lump sum greater than three times the maximum monthly benefit would be subject to payments in
7/9/09 4:21 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal05-766-20106-1042463&type=hitlist&num=13
was lowered. Any lump sum greater than three times the maximum monthly benefit would be subject to payments in
installments, except under certain conditions, such as terminal illness. (Savings: $425 million)
Higher Education
Changes to federal student loan programs were expected to save a net $11.9 billion over five years, mainly by
reducing the amounts received by lenders and increasing some borrower costs.
Student loan reauthorization. The law reauthorized the government's two college loan programs through 2012. The
Federal Family Education Loan program provided government guarantees for loans made by private lenders. The
William D. Ford Direct Loan Program provided government loans to students and their families. So-called consolidation
loans that enabled students to lock in prior year interest rates and combine multiple loans into a single payment were
reauthorized through 2012.
Parent loan rate increase. The fixed interest rate charged for guaranteed loans made to parents was changed to 8.5
percent starting in July 2006, rather than at 7.9 percent as under prior law.
“Excess interest.” Lenders earning more than the fair market return on student loans were required to rebate the
“excess interest” paid by students and parents to the federal government. Prior law allowed the lender to receive the
higher of the market rate or the amount paid by the borrower. (Combined savings under this and the parent loan rate
provision: $14.3 billion over five years)
9.5 percent loans. The law eliminated a provision of prior law that allowed lenders making loans backed by certain tax-
exempt bonds to receive up to a 9.5 percent return from the government. An exception allowed nonprofit lenders with
less than $100 million in outstanding 9.5 percent loans to make new loans under the system for five years. (Savings:
$1.8 billion over five years)
Administrative costs. The law eliminated mandatory funding for the costs of administering student loan programs
beginning in fiscal 2007. After that, administrative costs would have to be paid through discretionary appropriations.
(Savings: $2.2 billion over five years)
Guaranty agency fees. Loan guaranty agencies were required to pay the government a 1 percent default insurance
premium on guaranteed loans, which they could charge to student and parent borrowers. Previously, guaranty agencies
had the option of charging such a fee, but they often waived it. (Savings: $1.5 billion over five years)
Federal lender insurance. The law reduced the portion of a defaulted loan for which the lender was reimbursed to 97
percent from 98 percent for most lenders, and to 99 percent from 100 percent for “exceptional” lenders. (Savings: $505
million over five years)
Consolidation loans. Borrowers would be able to get a direct loan from the government to consolidate existing loans
only if the purpose was to enter into an income-contingent repayment plan. Also, the loan had to be submitted to a
guaranty agency that counseled the borrower on rehabilitating the loan rather than defaulting. The government had to
offer a direct consolidation loan to any borrower who defaulted or was rejected by a private lender. “In-school”
consolidation was eliminated by prohibiting students from requesting early repayment of their loans. Married couples
were prohibited from jointly consolidating their separate student loans. The government was required to establish
regulations to preclude consolidation loans from being “an excessive proportion” of defaulted loans for which the
government was required to reimburse guaranty agencies.
Guaranty agencies. As of Oct. 1, the “collection cost” that a guaranty agency could charge a borrower for including a
defaulted loan in a consolidation loan was limited to 18.5 percent of the outstanding principle and interest of the
defaulted loan. The guaranty agency was required to remit part of the collection charges to the government immediately
and remit the full amount of the charges by Oct. 1, 2009, if its proceeds from consolidating defaulted loans exceeded 45
percent of the agency's total collections of defaulted loans in a fiscal year.
Schools as lenders. Colleges were prohibited from lending to undergraduates or to people who were not their students,
and were limited to the loans they could make to their graduate students. Schools had to award contracts for financing,
servicing or administering their loans on a competitive basis. Schools were required to offer lower interest rates or lower
origination fees, or both, than either private lenders or the government can. The permissible default rate for a lending
school was reduced to 10 percent from 15 percent. Annual audits had to be submitted to the government. Schools were
required to use proceeds from interest paid by borrowers, subsidies from the government or sales of loans to increase
need-based student grants. They were forbidden to use those proceeds to supplant federal grant money.
Increased loan limits. The maximum amount of subsidized loans was increased to $3,500 from $2,625 for first-year
students, and to $4,500 from $3,500 for second-year students, beginning in fiscal 2007. The limit for each year of
graduate school was increased to $12,000 from $10,000. (Cost: $1.5 billion over five years)
Origination fees. The 3 percent origination fee for Stafford loans would be phased out by 2010 for guaranteed loans
and reduced to 1 percent by 2010 for direct loans. (Cost: $4 billion over five years)
New grant programs. The law created two new mandatory grant programs for college students who were eligible for
Pell grants. The first was available to first- and second-year college students who had completed a “rigorous” high
school education. The second program aided third- and fourth-year students who were pursuing degrees in the physical,
life or computer sciences, math, technology or engineering or one of several foreign languages considered critical for
national security. The grants were $750 for a first-year student, $1,300 for a second-year student and $4,000 for third-
7/9/09 4:21 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 9 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal05-766-20106-1042463&type=hitlist&num=13
national security. The grants were $750 for a first-year student, $1,300 for a second-year student and $4,000 for third-
and fourth-year students. The law appropriated $790 million in fiscal 2006 for the grants, rising to $1 billion in fiscal
2010. (Cost: $3.7 billion over five years)
Teacher loan forgiveness. The law reauthorized an existing provision that allowed the government to forgive up to
$5,000 in loans to highly qualified teachers of math, science or special education. Private school teachers who were
exempt from state certification requirements could benefit from the provision in some cases.
Pension Plan Insurance
An increase in the premiums that companies paid to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC), the federal
agency that insured worker retirement plans, was expected to bring in a total of $3.6 billion over five years.
Single-employer plans. Payments to the PBGC by individual corporations that offered their workers defined benefit
pension plans — which pay retirees a set amount, usually based on years of service and earnings — were $30 per
employee starting in 2006, an increase from $19. Future premium levels would be indexed to account for increases in
average wages. (Receipts: $2.3 billion over five years)
Multi-employer plans. Premiums paid to cover pension plans that applied to multiple employers were $8 per year for
each participant, up from $2.60, beginning in 2006. After 2006, the premium would be increased to account for gains in
average wages. (Receipts: $300 million over five years)
Termination premium. Companies that attempted to terminate their pension plans while in bankruptcy between the end
of 2005 and the start of 2011 would have to pay a special annual premium of $1,250 per participant for three years after
the termination of the plan. The special premium also applied to cases in which the PBGC moved to terminate a plan. If
a company was assessed the premium while in bankruptcy, it would not have to make the payment until  after it exited
from bankruptcy protection. The provision did not apply to companies that started bankruptcy proceedings prior to Oct.
18, 2005. (Receipts: $1 billion over five years)
Other Provisions
S-CHIP. The law provided an additional $283 million in funds under the State Children's Health Insurance Program for
states that faced funding shortfalls in 2006. No additional states were allowed to use S-CHIP funds to cover adults
without children.
LIHEAP. The law added $1 billion in fiscal 2007 to the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program. Of that amount,
$750 million was reserved for emergency needs. A law (PL 109-204) advancing that funding to fiscal 2007 was
enacted in March 2006.
Anti-dumping duties. The law phased out a 2000 statute that directed anti-dumping and countervailing duties, which
were assessed as a trade penalty, to be distributed to the domestic companies that were hurt by the unfair trade.
Starting in fiscal 2008, the revenue would begin staying in the Treasury instead. (Savings: $300 million over five years)
Vessel tonnage duties. Tonnage fees would be increased by between 2 cents and 13.5 cents per ton depending on the
location of the originating port. (Revenue: $156 million)
Civil filing fees. U.S. District Court filing fees rose by $100 to $350. Appeals Court fees rose by $200 to $450.
(Revenue: $167 million)
Bankruptcy fees. Fees rose by $25 to $245 for Chapter 7 filings and by $85 to $235 for Chapter 13. A drafting error
prevented an attempt to raise Chapter 11 filing fees by $1,750 to $2,750, which would have raised $68 million over five
years. (Revenue: $307 million)
Housing. A mandatory Federal Housing Administration program regarding rehabilitation grants and below-market sales
of multifamily housing units became subject to annual appropriations. (Savings: $270 million)
Document Citation
"Budget Reconciliation Provisions." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal05-766-20106-1042463.
Originally published in CQ Almanac 2005 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 2006).
http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal05-766-20106-1042463 (accessed July 9, 2009).
Document ID: cqal05-766-20106-1042463
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal05-766-20106-1042463
© 2006, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
