7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 1 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
HR 5660 IH
106th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. R. 5660
To reauthorize and amend the Commodity Exchange Act to promote legal certainty,
enhance competition, and reduce systemic risk in markets for futures and over-the-
counter derivatives, and for other purposes.
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
December 14, 2000
Mr. EWING (for himself, Mr. COMBEST, Mr. LEACH, Mr. LAFALCE, and Mr. BLILEY)
introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Agriculture, and
in addition to the Committees on Banking and Financial Services, Commerce, and the
Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned
A BILL
To reauthorize and amend the Commodity Exchange Act to promote legal certainty,
enhance competition, and reduce systemic risk in markets for futures and over-the-
counter derivatives, and for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Commodity Futures
Modernization Act of 2000'.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents of this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Purposes.
TITLE I--COMMODITY FUTURES MODERNIZATION
Sec. 101. Definitions.
Sec. 102. Agreements, contracts, and transactions in foreign currency,
government securities, and certain other commodities.
Sec. 103. Legal certainty for excluded derivative transactions.
Sec. 104. Excluded electronic trading facilities.
Sec. 105. Hybrid instruments; swap transactions.
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 2 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
Sec. 106. Transactions in exempt commodities.
Sec. 107. Application of commodity futures laws.
Sec. 108. Protection of the public interest.
Sec. 109. Prohibited transactions.
Sec. 110. Designation of boards of trade as contract markets.
Sec. 111. Derivatives transaction execution facilities.
Sec. 112. Derivatives clearing.
Sec. 113. Common provisions applicable to registered entities.
Sec. 114. Exempt boards of trade.
Sec. 115. Suspension or revocation of designation as contract market.
Sec. 116. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 117. Preemption.
Sec. 118. Predispute resolution agreements for institutional customers.
Sec. 119. Consideration of costs and benefits and antitrust laws.
Sec. 120. Contract enforcement between eligible counterparties.
Sec. 121. Special procedures to encourage and facilitate bona fide hedging
by agricultural producers.
Sec. 122. Rule of construction.
Sec. 123. Technical and conforming amendments.
Sec. 124. Privacy.
Sec. 125. Report to Congress.
Sec. 126. International activities of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission.
TITLE II--COORDINATED REGULATION OF SECURITY FUTURES
PRODUCTS
Subtitle A--Securities Law Amendments
Sec. 201. Definitions under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Sec. 202. Regulatory relief for markets trading security futures products.
Sec. 203. Regulatory relief for intermediaries trading security futures
products.
Sec. 204. Special provisions for interagency cooperation.
Sec. 205. Maintenance of market integrity for security futures products.
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 3 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
Sec. 206. Special provisions for the trading of security futures products.
Sec. 207. Clearance and settlement.
Sec. 208. Amendments relating to registration and disclosure issues under
the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Sec. 209. Amendments to the Investment Company Act of 1940 and the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940.
Sec. 210. Preemption of State laws.
Subtitle B--Amendments to the Commodity Exchange Act
Sec. 251. Jurisdiction of Securities and Exchange Commission; other
provisions.
Sec. 252. Application of the Commodity Exchange Act to national securities
exchanges and national securities associations that trade security futures.
Sec. 253. Notification of investigations and enforcement actions.
TITLE III--LEGAL CERTAINTY FOR SWAP AGREEMENTS
Sec. 301. Swap agreement.
Sec. 302. Amendments to the Securities Act of 1933.
Sec. 303. Amendments to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Sec. 304. Savings provision.
TITLE IV--REGULATORY RESPONSIBILITY FOR BANK PRODUCTS
Sec. 401. Short title.
Sec. 402. Definitions.
Sec. 403. Exclusion of identified banking products commonly offered on or
before December 5, 2000.
Sec. 404. Exclusion of certain identified banking products offered by banks
after December 5, 2000.
Sec. 405. Exclusion of certain other identified banking products.
Sec. 406. Administration of the predominance test.
Sec. 407. Exclusion of covered swap agreements.
Sec. 408. Contract enforcement.
SEC. 2. PURPOSES.
The purposes of this Act are--
(1) to reauthorize the appropriation for the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission;
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 4 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
(2) to streamline and eliminate unnecessary regulation for the commodity
futures exchanges and other entities regulated under the Commodity
Exchange Act;
(3) to transform the role of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to
oversight of the futures markets;
(4) to provide a statutory and regulatory framework for allowing the trading
of futures on securities;
(5) to clarify the jurisdiction of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
over certain retail foreign exchange transactions and bucket shops that may
not be otherwise regulated;
(6) to promote innovation for futures and derivatives and to reduce systemic
risk by enhancing legal certainty in the markets for certain futures and
derivatives transactions;
(7) to reduce systemic risk and provide greater stability to markets during
times of market disorder by allowing the clearing of transactions in over-the-
counter derivatives through appropriately regulated clearing organizations;
and
(8) to enhance the competitive position of United States financial institutions
and financial markets.
TITLE I--COMMODITY FUTURES MODERNIZATION
SEC. 101. DEFINITIONS.
Section 1a of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a) is amended--
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (7), (8) through (12), (13)
through (15), and (16) as paragraphs (2) through (8), (16) through (20),
(22) through (24), and (28), respectively;
(2) by inserting before paragraph (2) (as redesignated by paragraph (1)) the
following:
`(1) ALTERNATIVE TRADING SYSTEM- The term `alternative trading system'
means an organization, association, or group of persons that--
`(A) is registered as a broker or dealer pursuant to section 15(b) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (except paragraph (11) thereof);
`(B) performs the functions commonly performed by an exchange (as
defined in section 3(a)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934);
`(C) does not--
`(i) set rules governing the conduct of subscribers other than the
conduct of such subscribers' trading on the alternative trading
system; or
`(ii) discipline subscribers other than by exclusion from trading;
and
`(D) is exempt from the definition of the term `exchange' under such
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 5 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
section 3(a)(1) by rule or regulation of the Securities and Exchange
Commission on terms that require compliance with regulations of its
trading functions.';
(3) by striking paragraph (2) (as redesignated by paragraph (1)) and
inserting the following:
`(2) BOARD OF TRADE- The term `board of trade' means any organized
exchange or other trading facility.';
(4) by inserting after paragraph (8) (as redesignated by paragraph (1)) the
following:
`(9) DERIVATIVES CLEARING ORGANIZATION-
`(A) IN GENERAL- The term `derivatives clearing organization' means a
clearinghouse, clearing association, clearing corporation, or similar
entity, facility, system, or organization that, with respect to an
agreement, contract, or transaction--
`(i) enables each party to the agreement, contract, or transaction
to substitute, through novation or otherwise, the credit of the
derivatives clearing organization for the credit of the parties;
`(ii) arranges or provides, on a multilateral basis, for the
settlement or netting of obligations resulting from such agreements,
contracts, or transactions executed by participants in the
derivatives clearing organization; or
`(iii) otherwise provides clearing services or arrangements that
mutualize or transfer among participants in the derivatives clearing
organization the credit risk arising from such agreements,
contracts, or transactions executed by the participants.
`(B) EXCLUSIONS- The term `derivatives clearing organization' does
not include an entity, facility, system, or organization solely because it
arranges or provides for--
`(i) settlement, netting, or novation of obligations resulting from
agreements, contracts, or transactions, on a bilateral basis and
without a central counterparty;
`(ii) settlement or netting of cash payments through an interbank
payment system; or
`(iii) settlement, netting, or novation of obligations resulting from a
sale of a commodity in a transaction in the spot market for the
commodity.
`(10) ELECTRONIC TRADING FACILITY- The term `electronic trading facility'
means a trading facility that--
`(A) operates by means of an electronic or telecommunications
network; and
`(B) maintains an automated audit trail of bids, offers, and the
matching of orders or the execution of transactions on the facility.
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 6 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`(11) ELIGIBLE COMMERCIAL ENTITY- The term `eligible commercial entity'
means, with respect to an agreement, contract or transaction in a
commodity--
`(A) an eligible contract participant described in clause (i), (ii), (v), (vii),
(viii), or (ix) of paragraph (12)(A) that, in connection with its business--
`(i) has a demonstrable ability, directly or through separate
contractual arrangements, to make or take delivery of the
underlying commodity;
`(ii) incurs risks, in addition to price risk, related to the
commodity; or
`(iii) is a dealer that regularly provides risk management or
hedging services to, or engages in market-making activities with,
the foregoing entities involving transactions to purchase or sell the
commodity or derivative agreements, contracts, or transactions in
the commodity;
`(B) an eligible contract participant, other than a natural person or an
instrumentality, department, or agency of a State or local governmental
entity, that--
`(i) regularly enters into transactions to purchase or sell the
commodity or derivative agreements, contracts, or transactions in
the commodity; and
`(ii) either--
`(I) in the case of a collective investment vehicle whose
participants include persons other than--
`(aa) qualified eligible persons, as defined in Commission rule 4.7(a) (17 CFR 4.7(a));
`(bb) accredited investors, as defined in Regulation D of the Securities and Exchange
Commission under the Securities Act of 1933 (17 CFR 230.501(a)), with total assets of
$2,000,000; or
`(cc) qualified purchasers, as defined in section 2(a)(51)(A) of the Investment
Company Act of 1940;
in each case as in effect on the date of the enactment of the
Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000, has, or is one
of a group of vehicles under common control or management
having in the aggregate, $1,000,000,000 in total assets; or
`(II) in the case of other persons, has, or is one of a group of
persons under common control or management having in the
aggregate, $100,000,000 in total assets; or
`(C) such other persons as the Commission shall determine appropriate
and shall designate by rule, regulation, or order.
`(12) ELIGIBLE CONTRACT PARTICIPANT- The term `eligible contract
participant' means--
`(A) acting for its own account--
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 7 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`(i) a financial institution;
`(ii) an insurance company that is regulated by a State, or that is
regulated by a foreign government and is subject to comparable
regulation as determined by the Commission, including a regulated
subsidiary or affiliate of such an insurance company;
`(iii) an investment company subject to regulation under the
Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1 et seq.) or a
foreign person performing a similar role or function subject as such
to foreign regulation (regardless of whether each investor in the
investment company or the foreign person is itself an eligible
contract participant);
`(iv) a commodity pool that--
`(I) has total assets exceeding $5,000,000; and
`(II) is formed and operated by a person subject to regulation
under this Act or a foreign person performing a similar role or
function subject as such to foreign regulation (regardless of
whether each investor in the commodity pool or the foreign
person is itself an eligible contract participant);
`(v) a corporation, partnership, proprietorship, organization, trust,
or other entity--
`(I) that has total assets exceeding $10,000,000;
`(II) the obligations of which under an agreement, contract, or
transaction are guaranteed or otherwise supported by a letter
of credit or keepwell, support, or other agreement by an entity
described in subclause (I), in clause (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), or (vii),
or in subparagraph (C); or
`(III) that--
`(aa) has a net worth exceeding $1,000,000; and
`(bb) enters into an agreement, contract, or transaction in connection with the conduct
of the entity's business or to manage the risk associated with an asset or liability
owned or incurred or reasonably likely to be owned or incurred by the entity in the
conduct of the entity's business;
`(vi) an employee benefit plan subject to the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.), a
governmental employee benefit plan, or a foreign person
performing a similar role or function subject as such to foreign
regulation--
`(I) that has total assets exceeding $5,000,000; or
`(II) the investment decisions of which are made by--
`(aa) an investment adviser or commodity trading advisor subject to regulation under
the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-1 et seq.) or this Act;
`(bb) a foreign person performing a similar role or function subject as such to foreign
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 8 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
regulation;
`(cc) a financial institution; or
`(dd) an insurance company described in clause (ii), or a regulated subsidiary or
affiliate of such an insurance company;
`(vii)(I) a governmental entity (including the United States, a
State, or a foreign government) or political subdivision of a
governmental entity;
`(II) a multinational or supranational government entity; or
`(III) an instrumentality, agency, or department of an entity
described in subclause (I) or (II);
except that such term does not include an entity, instrumentality,
agency, or department referred to in subclause (I) or (III) of this
clause unless (aa) the entity, instrumentality, agency, or
department is a person described in clause (i), (ii), or (iii) of
section 1a(11)(A); (bb) the entity, instrumentality, agency, or
department owns and invests on a discretionary basis $25,000,000
or more in investments; or (cc) the agreement, contract, or
transaction is offered by, and entered into with, an entity that is
listed in any of subclauses (I) through (VI) of section 2(c)(2)(B)(ii);
`(viii)(I) a broker or dealer subject to regulation under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.) or a
foreign person performing a similar role or function subject as such
to foreign regulation, except that, if the broker or dealer or foreign
person is a natural person or proprietorship, the broker or dealer or
foreign person shall not be considered to be an eligible contract
participant unless the broker or dealer or foreign person also meets
the requirements of clause (v) or (xi);
`(II) an associated person of a registered broker or dealer
concerning the financial or securities activities of which the
registered person makes and keeps records under section 15C(b)
or 17(h) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-
5(b), 78q(h));
`(III) an investment bank holding company (as defined in section
17(i) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78q(i));
`(ix) a futures commission merchant subject to regulation under
this Act or a foreign person performing a similar role or function
subject as such to foreign regulation, except that, if the futures
commission merchant or foreign person is a natural person or
proprietorship, the futures commission merchant or foreign person
shall not be considered to be an eligible contract participant unless
the futures commission merchant or foreign person also meets the
requirements of clause (v) or (xi);
`(x) a floor broker or floor trader subject to regulation under this
Act in connection with any transaction that takes place on or
through the facilities of a registered entity or an exempt board of
trade, or any affiliate thereof, on which such person regularly
trades; or
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 9 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`(xi) an individual who has total assets in an amount in excess of--
`(I) $10,000,000; or
`(II) $5,000,000 and who enters into the agreement, contract,
or transaction in order to manage the risk associated with an
asset owned or liability incurred, or reasonably likely to be
owned or incurred, by the individual;
`(B)(i) a person described in clause (i), (ii), (iv), (v), (viii), (ix), or (x)
of subparagraph (A) or in subparagraph (C), acting as broker or
performing an equivalent agency function on behalf of another person
described in subparagraph (A) or (C); or
`(ii) an investment adviser subject to regulation under the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940, a commodity trading advisor subject to regulation
under this Act, a foreign person performing a similar role or function
subject as such to foreign regulation, or a person described in clause (i),
(ii), (iv), (v), (viii), (ix), or (x) of subparagraph (A) or in subparagraph
(C), in any such case acting as investment manager or fiduciary (but
excluding a person acting as broker or performing an equivalent agency
function) for another person described in subparagraph (A) or (C) and
who is authorized by such person to commit such person to the
transaction; or
`(C) any other person that the Commission determines to be eligible in
light of the financial or other qualifications of the person.
`(13) EXCLUDED COMMODITY- The term `excluded commodity' means--
`(i) an interest rate, exchange rate, currency, security, security
index, credit risk or measure, debt or equity instrument, index or
measure of inflation, or other macroeconomic index or measure;
`(ii) any other rate, differential, index, or measure of economic or
commercial risk, return, or value that is--
`(I) not based in substantial part on the value of a narrow
group of commodities not described in clause (i); or
`(II) based solely on one or more commodities that have no
cash market;
`(iii) any economic or commercial index based on prices, rates,
values, or levels that are not within the control of any party to the
relevant contract, agreement, or transaction; or
`(iv) an occurrence, extent of an occurrence, or contingency (other
than a change in the price, rate, value, or level of a commodity not
described in clause (i)) that is--
`(I) beyond the control of the parties to the relevant contract,
agreement, or transaction; and
`(II) associated with a financial, commercial, or economic
consequence.
`(14) EXEMPT COMMODITY- The term `exempt commodity' means a
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 10 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
commodity that is not an excluded commodity or an agricultural commodity.
`(15) FINANCIAL INSTITUTION- The term `financial institution' means--
`(A) a corporation operating under the fifth undesignated paragraph of
section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 603), commonly known
as `an agreement corporation';
`(B) a corporation organized under section 25A of the Federal Reserve
Act (12 U.S.C. 611 et seq.), commonly known as an `Edge Act
corporation';
`(C) an institution that is regulated by the Farm Credit Administration;
`(D) a Federal credit union or State credit union (as defined in section
101 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1752));
`(E) a depository institution (as defined in section 3 of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813));
`(F) a foreign bank or a branch or agency of a foreign bank (each as
defined in section 1(b) of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12
U.S.C. 3101(b)));
`(G) any financial holding company (as defined in section 2 of the Bank
Holding Company Act of 1956);
`(H) a trust company; or
`(I) a similarly regulated subsidiary or affiliate of an entity described in
any of subparagraphs (A) through (H).';
(5) by inserting after paragraph (20) (as redesignated by paragraph (1)) the
following:
`(21) HYBRID INSTRUMENT- The term `hybrid instrument' means a security
having one or more payments indexed to the value, level, or rate of, or
providing for the delivery of, one or more commodities.';
(6) by striking paragraph (24) (as redesignated by paragraph (1)) and
inserting the following:
`(24) MEMBER OF A CONTRACT MARKET; MEMBER OF A DERIVATIVES
TRANSACTION EXECUTION FACILITY- The term `member' means, with
respect to a contract market or derivatives transaction execution facility, an
individual, association, partnership, corporation, or trust--
`(A) owning or holding membership in, or admitted to membership
representation on, the contract market or derivatives transaction
execution facility; or
`(B) having trading privileges on the contract market or derivatives
transaction execution facility.
`(25) NARROW-BASED SECURITY INDEX-
`(A) The term `narrow-based security index' means an index--
`(i) that has 9 or fewer component securities;
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 11 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`(ii) in which a component security comprises more than 30
percent of the index's weighting;
`(iii) in which the five highest weighted component securities in the
aggregate comprise more than 60 percent of the index's weighting;
or
`(iv) in which the lowest weighted component securities
comprising, in the aggregate, 25 percent of the index's weighting
have an aggregate dollar value of average daily trading volume of
less than $50,000,000 (or in the case of an index with 15 or more
component securities, $30,000,000), except that if there are two or
more securities with equal weighting that could be included in the
calculation of the lowest weighted component securities comprising,
in the aggregate, 25 percent of the index's weighting, such
securities shall be ranked from lowest to highest dollar value of
average daily trading volume and shall be included in the
calculation based on their ranking starting with the lowest ranked
security.
`(B) Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), an index is not a narrow-based
security index if--
`(i)(I) it has at least 9 component securities;
`(II) no component security comprises more than 30 percent of the
index's weighting; and
`(III) each component security is--
`(aa) registered pursuant to section 12 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934;
`(bb) one of 750 securities with the largest market
capitalization; and
`(cc) one of 675 securities with the largest dollar value of
average daily trading volume;
`(ii) a board of trade was designated as a contract market by the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission with respect to a contract
of sale for future delivery on the index, before the date of the
enactment of the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000;
`(iii)(I) a contract of sale for future delivery on the index traded on
a designated contract market or registered derivatives transaction
execution facility for at least 30 days as a contract of sale for
future delivery on an index that was not a narrow-based security
index; and
`(II) it has been a narrow-based security index for no more than
45 business days over 3 consecutive calendar months;
`(iv) a contract of sale for future delivery on the index is traded on
or subject to the rules of a foreign board of trade and meets such
requirements as are jointly established by rule or regulation by the
Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission;
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 12 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`(v) no more than 18 months have passed since the date of the
enactment of the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000
and--
`(I) it is traded on or subject to the rules of a foreign board of
trade;
`(II) the offer and sale in the United States of a contract of
sale for future delivery on the index was authorized before the
date of the enactment of the Commodity Futures
Modernization Act of 2000; and
`(III) the conditions of such authorization continue to be met;
or
`(vi) a contract of sale for future delivery on the index is traded on
or subject to the rules of a board of trade and meets such
requirements as are jointly established by rule, regulation, or order
by the Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission.
`(C) Within 1 year after the date of the enactment of the Commodity
Futures Modernization Act of 2000, the Commission and the Securities
and Exchange Commission jointly shall adopt rules or regulations that
set forth the requirements under subparagraph (B)(iv).
`(D) An index that is a narrow-based security index solely because it
was a narrow-based security index for more than 45 business days over
3 consecutive calendar months pursuant to clause (iii) of subparagraph
(B) shall not be a narrow-based security index for the 3 following
calendar months.
`(E) For purposes of subparagraphs (A) and (B)--
`(i) the dollar value of average daily trading volume and the
market capitalization shall be calculated as of the preceding 6 full
calendar months; and
`(ii) the Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission
shall, by rule or regulation, jointly specify the method to be used to
determine market capitalization and dollar value of average daily
trading volume.
`(26) OPTION- The term `option' means an agreement, contract, or
transaction that is of the character of, or is commonly known to the trade as,
an `option', `privilege', `indemnity', `bid', `offer', `put', `call', `advance
guaranty', or `decline guaranty'.
`(27) ORGANIZED EXCHANGE- The term `organized exchange' means a
trading facility that--
`(A) permits trading--
`(i) by or on behalf of a person that is not an eligible contract
participant; or
`(ii) by persons other than on a principal-to-principal basis; or
`(B) has adopted (directly or through another nongovernmental entity)
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 13 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
rules that--
`(i) govern the conduct of participants, other than rules that
govern the submission of orders or execution of transactions on the
trading facility; and
`(ii) include disciplinary sanctions other than the exclusion of
participants from trading.'; and
(7) by adding at the end the following:
`(29) REGISTERED ENTITY- The term `registered entity' means--
`(A) a board of trade designated as a contract market under section 5;
`(B) a derivatives transaction execution facility registered under section
5a;
`(C) a derivatives clearing organization registered under section 5b; and
`(D) a board of trade designated as a contract market under section 5f.
`(30) SECURITY- The term `security' means a security as defined in section
2(a)(1) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77b(a)(1)) or section
3(a)(10) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(10)).
`(31) SECURITY FUTURE- The term `security future' means a contract of
sale for future delivery of a single security or of a narrow-based security
index, including any interest therein or based on the value thereof, except an
exempted security under section 3(a)(12) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 as in effect on the date of the enactment of the Futures Trading Act of
1982 (other than any municipal security as defined in section 3(a)(29) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as in effect on the date of the enactment of
the Futures Trading Act of 1982). The term `security future' does not include
any agreement, contract, or transaction excluded from this Act under section
2(c), 2(d), 2(f), or 2(g) of this Act (as in effect on the date of the enactment
of the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000) or title IV of the
Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000.
`(32) SECURITY FUTURES PRODUCT- The term `security futures product'
means a security future or any put, call, straddle, option, or privilege on any
security future.
`(33) TRADING FACILITY-
`(A) IN GENERAL- The term `trading facility' means a person or group
of persons that constitutes, maintains, or provides a physical or
electronic facility or system in which multiple participants have the
ability to execute or trade agreements, contracts, or transactions by
accepting bids and offers made by other participants that are open to
multiple participants in the facility or system.
`(B) EXCLUSIONS- The term `trading facility' does not include--
`(i) a person or group of persons solely because the person or
group of persons constitutes, maintains, or provides an electronic
facility or system that enables participants to negotiate the terms
of and enter into bilateral transactions as a result of
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 14 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
communications exchanged by the parties and not from interaction
of multiple bids and multiple offers within a predetermined,
nondiscretionary automated trade matching and execution
algorithm;
`(ii) a government securities dealer or government securities
broker, to the extent that the dealer or broker executes or trades
agreements, contracts, or transactions in government securities, or
assists persons in communicating about, negotiating, entering into,
executing, or trading an agreement, contract, or transaction in
government securities (as the terms `government securities
dealer', `government securities broker', and `government
securities' are defined in section 3(a) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a))); or
`(iii) facilities on which bids and offers, and acceptances of bids
and offers effected on the facility, are not binding.
Any person, group of persons, dealer, broker, or facility described in
clause (i) or (ii) is excluded from the meaning of the term `trading
facility' for the purposes of this Act without any prior specific approval,
certification, or other action by the Commission.
`(C) SPECIAL RULE- A person or group of persons that would not
otherwise constitute a trading facility shall not be considered to be a
trading facility solely as a result of the submission to a derivatives
clearing organization of transactions executed on or through the person
or group of persons.'.
SEC. 102. AGREEMENTS, CONTRACTS, AND TRANSACTIONS IN
FOREIGN CURRENCY, GOVERNMENT SECURITIES, AND CERTAIN
OTHER COMMODITIES.
Section 2 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2, 2a, 3, 4, 4a) is amended
by adding at the end the following:
`(c) AGREEMENTS, CONTRACTS, AND TRANSACTIONS IN FOREIGN CURRENCY,
GOVERNMENT SECURITIES, AND CERTAIN OTHER COMMODITIES-
`(1) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in paragraph (2), nothing in this Act
(other than section 5a (to the extent provided in section 5a(g)), 5b, 5d, or
12(e)(2)(B)) governs or applies to an agreement, contract, or transaction in-
-
`(A) foreign currency;
`(B) government securities;
`(C) security warrants;
`(D) security rights;
`(E) resales of installment loan contracts;
`(F) repurchase transactions in an excluded commodity; or
`(G) mortgages or mortgage purchase commitments.
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 15 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`(2) COMMISSION JURISDICTION-
`(A) AGREEMENTS, CONTRACTS, AND TRANSACTIONS TRADED ON AN
ORGANIZED EXCHANGE- This Act applies to, and the Commission shall
have jurisdiction over, an agreement, contract, or transaction described
in paragraph (1) that is--
`(i) a contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery (or an
option on such a contract), or an option on a commodity (other
than foreign currency or a security or a group or index of
securities), that is executed or traded on an organized exchange;
or
`(ii) an option on foreign currency executed or traded on an
organized exchange that is not a national securities exchange
registered pursuant to section 6(a) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934.
`(B) AGREEMENTS, CONTRACTS, AND TRANSACTIONS IN RETAIL
FOREIGN CURRENCY- This Act applies to, and the Commission shall
have jurisdiction over, an agreement, contract, or transaction in foreign
currency that--
`(i) is a contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery (or an
option on such a contract) or an option (other than an option
executed or traded on a national securities exchange registered
pursuant to section 6(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934);
and
`(ii) is offered to, or entered into with, a person that is not an
eligible contract participant, unless the counterparty, or the person
offering to be the counterparty, of the person is--
`(I) a financial institution;
`(II) a broker or dealer registered under section 15(b) or 15C
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o(b),
78o-5) or a futures commission merchant registered under
this Act;
`(III) an associated person of a broker or dealer registered
under section 15(b) or 15C of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o(b), 78o-5), or an affiliated person of a
futures commission merchant registered under this Act,
concerning the financial or securities activities of which the
registered person makes and keeps records under section
15C(b) or 17(h) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15
U.S.C. 78o-5(b), 78q(h)) or section 4f(c)(2)(B) of this Act;
`(IV) an insurance company described in section 1a(12)(A)(ii)
of this Act, or a regulated subsidiary or affiliate of such an
insurance company;
`(V) a financial holding company (as defined in section 2 of
the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956); or
`(VI) an investment bank holding company (as defined in
section 17(i) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934).
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 16 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`(C) Notwithstanding subclauses (II) and (III) of subparagraph (B)(ii),
agreements, contracts, or transactions described in subparagraph (B)
shall be subject to sections 4b, 4c(b), 6(c) and 6(d) (to the extent that
sections 6(c) and 6(d) prohibit manipulation of the market price of any
commodity, in interstate commerce, or for future delivery on or subject
to the rules of any market), 6c, 6d, and 8(a) if they are entered into by
a futures commission merchant or an affiliate of a futures commission
merchant that is not also an entity described in subparagraph (B)(ii) of
this paragraph.'.
SEC. 103. LEGAL CERTAINTY FOR EXCLUDED DERIVATIVE
TRANSACTIONS.
Section 2 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2, 2a, 3, 4, 4a) is further
amended by adding at the end the following:
`(d) EXCLUDED DERIVATIVE TRANSACTIONS-
`(1) IN GENERAL- Nothing in this Act (other than section 5b or 12(e)(2)(B)
governs or applies to an agreement, contract, or transaction in an excluded
commodity if--
`(A) the agreement, contract, or transaction is entered into only
between persons that are eligible contract participants at the time at
which the persons enter into the agreement, contract, or transaction;
and
`(B) the agreement, contract, or transaction is not executed or traded
on a trading facility.
`(2) ELECTRONIC TRADING FACILITY EXCLUSION- Nothing in this Act (other
than section 5a (to the extent provided in section 5a(g)), 5b, 5d, or
12(e)(2)(B)) governs or applies to an agreement, contract, or transaction in
an excluded commodity if--
`(A) the agreement, contract, or transaction is entered into on a
principal-to-principal basis between parties trading for their own
accounts or as described in section 1a(12)(B)(ii);
`(B) the agreement, contract, or transaction is entered into only
between persons that are eligible contract participants described in
subparagraph (A), (B)(ii), or (C) of section 1a(12)) at the time at which
the persons enter into the agreement, contract, or transaction; and
`(C) the agreement, contract, or transaction is executed or traded on an
electronic trading facility.'.
SEC. 104. EXCLUDED ELECTRONIC TRADING FACILITIES.
Section 2 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2, 2a, 3, 4, 4a) is further
amended by adding at the end the following:
`(e) EXCLUDED ELECTRONIC TRADING FACILITIES-
`(1) IN GENERAL- Nothing in this Act (other than section 12(e)(2)(B))
governs or is applicable to an electronic trading facility that limits
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 17 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
transactions authorized to be conducted on its facilities to those satisfying
the requirements of section 2(d)(2), 2(g), or 2(h)(3).
`(2) EFFECT ON AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH AND OPERATE- Nothing in this
Act shall prohibit a board of trade designated by the Commission as a
contract market or derivatives transaction execution facility, or operating as
an exempt board of trade from establishing and operating an electronic
trading facility excluded under this Act pursuant to paragraph (1).
`(3) EFFECT ON TRANSACTIONS- No failure by an electronic trading facility
to limit transactions as required by paragraph (1) of this subsection or to
comply with section 2(h)(5) shall in itself affect the legality, validity, or
enforceability of an agreement, contract, or transaction entered into or
traded on the electronic trading facility or cause a participant on the system
to be in violation of this Act.
`(4) SPECIAL RULE- A person or group of persons that would not otherwise
constitute a trading facility shall not be considered to be a trading facility
solely as a result of the submission to a derivatives clearing organization of
transactions executed on or through the person or group of persons.'.
SEC. 105. HYBRID INSTRUMENTS; SWAP TRANSACTIONS.
(a) HYBRID INSTRUMENTS- Section 2 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C.
2, 2a, 3, 4, 4a) is further amended by adding at the end the following:
`(f) EXCLUSION FOR QUALIFYING HYBRID INSTRUMENTS-
`(1) IN GENERAL- Nothing in this Act (other than section 12(e)(2)(B))
governs or is applicable to a hybrid instrument that is predominantly a
security.
`(2) PREDOMINANCE- A hybrid instrument shall be considered to be
predominantly a security if--
`(A) the issuer of the hybrid instrument receives payment in full of the
purchase price of the hybrid instrument, substantially
contemporaneously with delivery of the hybrid instrument;
`(B) the purchaser or holder of the hybrid instrument is not required to
make any payment to the issuer in addition to the purchase price paid
under subparagraph (A), whether as margin, settlement payment, or
otherwise, during the life of the hybrid instrument or at maturity;
`(C) the issuer of the hybrid instrument is not subject by the terms of
the instrument to mark-to-market margining requirements; and
`(D) the hybrid instrument is not marketed as a contract of sale of a
commodity for future delivery (or option on such a contract) subject to
this Act.
`(3) MARK-TO-MARKET MARGINING REQUIREMENTS- For the purposes of
paragraph (2)(C), mark-to-market margining requirements do not include
the obligation of an issuer of a secured debt instrument to increase the
amount of collateral held in pledge for the benefit of the purchaser of the
secured debt instrument to secure the repayment obligations of the issuer
under the secured debt instrument.'.
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 18 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
(b) SWAP TRANSACTIONS- Section 2 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2,
2a, 3, 4, 4a) is further amended by adding at the end the following:
`(g) EXCLUDED SWAP TRANSACTIONS- No provision of this Act (other than
section 5a (to the extent provided in section 5a(g)), 5b, 5d, or 12(e)(2)) shall
apply to or govern any agreement, contract, or transaction in a commodity other
than an agricultural commodity if the agreement, contract, or transaction is--
`(1) entered into only between persons that are eligible contract participants
at the time they enter into the agreement, contract, or transaction;
`(2) subject to individual negotiation by the parties; and
`(3) not executed or traded on a trading facility.'.
(c) STUDY REGARDING RETAIL SWAPS-
(1) IN GENERAL- The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the
Secretary of the Treasury, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, and
the Securities and Exchange Commission shall conduct a study of issues
involving the offering of swap agreements to persons other than eligible
contract participants (as defined in section 1a of the Commodity Exchange
Act).
(2) MATTERS TO BE ADDRESSED- The study shall address--
(A) the potential uses of swap agreements by persons other than
eligible contract participants;
(B) the extent to which financial institutions are willing to offer swap
agreements to persons other than eligible contract participants;
(C) the appropriate regulatory structure to address customer protection
issues that may arise in connection with the offer of swap agreements
to persons other than eligible contract participants; and
(D) such other relevant matters deemed necessary or appropriate to
address.
(3) REPORT- Before the end of the 1-year period beginning on the date of
the enactment of this Act, a report on the findings and conclusions of the
study required by paragraph (1) shall be submitted to Congress, together
with such recommendations for legislative action as are deemed necessary
and appropriate.
SEC. 106. TRANSACTIONS IN EXEMPT COMMODITIES.
Section 2 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2, 2a, 3, 4, 4a) is further
amended by adding at the end the following:
`(h) LEGAL CERTAINTY FOR CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS IN EXEMPT COMMODITIES-
`(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), nothing in this Act shall apply to a
contract, agreement, or transaction in an exempt commodity which--
`(A) is entered into solely between persons that are eligible contract
participants at the time the persons enter into the agreement, contract,
or transaction; and
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 19 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`(B) is not entered into on a trading facility.
`(2) An agreement, contract, or transaction described in paragraph (1) of
this subsection shall be subject to--
`(A) sections 5b and 12(e)(2)(B);
`(B) sections 4b, 4o, 6(c), 6(d), 6c, 6d, and 8a, and the regulations of
the Commission pursuant to section 4c(b) proscribing fraud in
connection with commodity option transactions, to the extent the
agreement, contract, or transaction is not between eligible commercial
entities (unless one of the entities is an instrumentality, department, or
agency of a State or local governmental entity) and would otherwise be
subject to such sections and regulations; and
`(C) sections 6(c), 6(d), 6c, 6d, 8a, and 9(a)(2), to the extent such
sections prohibit manipulation of the market price of any commodity in
interstate commerce and the agreement, contract, or transaction would
otherwise be subject to such sections.
`(3) Except as provided in paragraph (4), nothing in this Act shall apply to
an agreement, contract, or transaction in an exempt commodity which is--
`(A) entered into on a principal-to-principal basis solely between
persons that are eligible commercial entities at the time the persons
enter into the agreement, contract, or transaction; and
`(B) executed or traded on an electronic trading facility.
`(4) An agreement, contract, or transaction described in paragraph (3) of
this subsection shall be subject to--
`(A) sections 5a (to the extent provided in section 5a(g)), 5b, 5d, and
12(e)(2)(B);
`(B) sections 4b and 4o and the regulations of the Commission pursuant
to section 4c(b) proscribing fraud in connection with commodity option
transactions to the extent the agreement, contract, or transaction would
otherwise be subject to such sections and regulations;
`(C) sections 6(c) and 9(a)(2), to the extent such sections prohibit
manipulation of the market price of any commodity in interstate
commerce and to the extent the agreement, contract, or transaction
would otherwise be subject to such sections; and
`(D) such rules and regulations as the Commission may prescribe if
necessary to ensure timely dissemination by the electronic trading
facility of price, trading volume, and other trading data to the extent
appropriate, if the Commission determines that the electronic trading
facility performs a significant price discovery function for transactions in
the cash market for the commodity underlying any agreement, contract,
or transaction executed or traded on the electronic trading facility.
`(5) An electronic trading facility relying on the exemption provided in
paragraph (3) shall--
`(A) notify the Commission of its intention to operate an electronic
trading facility in reliance on the exemption set forth in paragraph (3),
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 20 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
which notice shall include--
`(i) the name and address of the facility and a person designated
to receive communications from the Commission;
`(ii) the commodity categories that the facility intends to list or
otherwise make available for trading on the facility in reliance on
the exemption set forth in paragraph (3);
`(iii) certifications that--
`(I) no executive officer or member of the governing board of,
or any holder of a 10 percent or greater equity interest in, the
facility is a person described in any of subparagraphs (A)
through (H) of section 8a(2);
`(II) the facility will comply with the conditions for exemption
under this paragraph; and
`(III) the facility will notify the Commission of any material
change in the information previously provided by the facility to
the Commission pursuant to this paragraph; and
`(iv) the identity of any derivatives clearing organization to which
the facility transmits or intends to transmit transaction data for the
purpose of facilitating the clearance and settlement of transactions
conducted on the facility in reliance on the exemption set forth in
paragraph (3);
`(B)(i)(I) provide the Commission with access to the facility's trading
protocols and electronic access to the facility with respect to
transactions conducted in reliance on the exemption set forth in
paragraph (3); or
`(II) provide such reports to the Commission regarding transactions
executed on the facility in reliance on the exemption set forth in
paragraph (3) as the Commission may from time to time request to
enable the Commission to satisfy its obligations under this Act;
`(ii) maintain for 5 years, and make available for inspection by the
Commission upon request, records of activities related to its business as
an electronic trading facility exempt under paragraph (3), including--
`(I) information relating to data entry and transaction details
sufficient to enable the Commission to reconstruct trading activity
on the facility conducted in reliance on the exemption set forth in
paragraph (3); and
`(II) the name and address of each participant on the facility
authorized to enter into transactions in reliance on the exemption
set forth in paragraph (3); and
`(iii) upon special call by the Commission, provide to the Commission, in
a form and manner and within the period specified in the special call,
such information related to its business as an electronic trading facility
exempt under paragraph (3), including information relating to data
entry and transaction details in respect of transactions entered into in
reliance on the exemption set forth in paragraph (3), as the Commission
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 21 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
may determine appropriate--
`(I) to enforce the provisions specified in subparagraphs (B) and
(C) of paragraph (4);
`(II) to evaluate a systemic market event; or
`(III) to obtain information requested by a Federal financial
regulatory authority in order to enable the regulator to fulfill its
regulatory or supervisory responsibilities;
`(C)(i) upon receipt of any subpoena issued by or on behalf of the
Commission to any foreign person who the Commission believes is
conducting or has conducted transactions in reliance on the exemption
set forth in paragraph (3) on or through the electronic trading facility
relating to the transactions, promptly notify the foreign person of, and
transmit to the foreign person, the subpoena in a manner reasonable
under the circumstances, or as specified by the Commission; and
`(ii) if the Commission has reason to believe that a person has not
timely complied with a subpoena issued by or on behalf of the
Commission pursuant to clause (i), and the Commission in writing has
directed that a facility relying on the exemption set forth in paragraph
(3) deny or limit further transactions by the person, the facility shall
deny that person further trading access to the facility or, as applicable,
limit that person's access to the facility for liquidation trading only;
`(D) comply with the requirements of this paragraph applicable to the
facility and require that each participant, as a condition of trading on the
facility in reliance on the exemption set forth in paragraph (3), agree to
comply with all applicable law;
`(E) have a reasonable basis for believing that participants authorized to
conduct transactions on the facility in reliance on the exemption set
forth in paragraph (3) are eligible commercial entities; and
`(F) not represent to any person that the facility is registered with, or
designated, recognized, licensed, or approved by the Commission.
`(6) A person named in a subpoena referred to in paragraph (5)(C) that
believes the person is or may be adversely affected or aggrieved by action
taken by the Commission under this section, shall have the opportunity for a
prompt hearing after the Commission acts under procedures that the
Commission shall establish by rule, regulation, or order.'.
SEC. 107. APPLICATION OF COMMODITY FUTURES LAWS.
Section 2 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2, 2a, 3, 4, 4a) is further
amended by adding at the end the following:
`(i) APPLICATION OF COMMODITY FUTURES LAWS-
`(1) No provision of this Act shall be construed as implying or creating any
presumption that--
`(A) any agreement, contract, or transaction that is excluded from this
Act under section 2(c), 2(d), 2(e), 2(f), or 2(g) of this Act or title IV of
the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000, or exempted under
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 22 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
section 2(h) or 4(c) of this Act; or
`(B) any agreement, contract, or transaction, not otherwise subject to
this Act, that is not so excluded or exempted,
is or would otherwise be subject to this Act.
`(2) No provision of, or amendment made by, the Commodity Futures
Modernization Act of 2000 shall be construed as conferring jurisdiction on the
Commission with respect to any such agreement, contract, or transaction,
except as expressly provided in section 5a of this Act (to the extent provided
in section 5a(g) of this Act), 5b of this Act, or 5d of this Act.'.
SEC. 108. PROTECTION OF THE PUBLIC INTEREST.
The Commodity Exchange Act is amended by striking section 3 (7 U.S.C. 5) and
inserting the following:
`SEC. 3. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
`(a) FINDINGS- The transactions subject to this Act are entered into regularly in
interstate and international commerce and are affected with a national public
interest by providing a means for managing and assuming price risks, discovering
prices, or disseminating pricing information through trading in liquid, fair and
financially secure trading facilities.
`(b) PURPOSE- It is the purpose of this Act to serve the public interests described
in subsection (a) through a system of effective self-regulation of trading facilities,
clearing systems, market participants and market professionals under the
oversight of the Commission. To foster these public interests, it is further the
purpose of this Act to deter and prevent price manipulation or any other
disruptions to market integrity; to ensure the financial integrity of all transactions
subject to this Act and the avoidance of systemic risk; to protect all market
participants from fraudulent or other abusive sales practices and misuses of
customer assets; and to promote responsible innovation and fair competition
among boards of trade, other markets and market participants.'.
SEC. 109. PROHIBITED TRANSACTIONS.
Section 4c of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6c) is amended by striking
`SEC. 4c.' and all that follows through subsection (a) and inserting the following:
`SEC. 4c. PROHIBITED TRANSACTIONS.
`(a) IN GENERAL-
`(1) PROHIBITION- It shall be unlawful for any person to offer to enter into,
enter into, or confirm the execution of a transaction described in paragraph
(2) involving the purchase or sale of any commodity for future delivery (or
any option on such a transaction or option on a commodity) if the transaction
is used or may be used to--
`(A) hedge any transaction in interstate commerce in the commodity or
the product or byproduct of the commodity;
`(B) determine the price basis of any such transaction in interstate
commerce in the commodity; or
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 23 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`(C) deliver any such commodity sold, shipped, or received in interstate
commerce for the execution of the transaction.
`(2) TRANSACTION- A transaction referred to in paragraph (1) is a
transaction that--
`(A)(i) is, of the character of, or is commonly known to the trade as, a
`wash sale' or `accommodation trade'; or
`(ii) is a fictitious sale; or
`(B) is used to cause any price to be reported, registered, or recorded
that is not a true and bona fide price.'.
SEC. 110. DESIGNATION OF BOARDS OF TRADE AS CONTRACT
MARKETS.
The Commodity Exchange Act is amended--
(1) by redesignating section 5b (7 U.S.C. 7b) as section 5e; and
(2) by striking sections 5 and 5a (7 U.S.C. 7, 7a) and inserting the following:
`SEC. 5. DESIGNATION OF BOARDS OF TRADE AS CONTRACT
MARKETS.
`(a) APPLICATIONS- A board of trade applying to the Commission for designation
as a contract market shall submit an application to the Commission that includes
any relevant materials and records the Commission may require consistent with
this Act.
`(b) CRITERIA FOR DESIGNATION-
`(1) IN GENERAL- To be designated as a contract market, the board of trade
shall demonstrate to the Commission that the board of trade meets the
criteria specified in this subsection.
`(2) PREVENTION OF MARKET MANIPULATION- The board of trade shall have
the capacity to prevent market manipulation through market surveillance,
compliance, and enforcement practices and procedures, including methods for
conducting real-time monitoring of trading and comprehensive and accurate
trade reconstructions.
`(3) FAIR AND EQUITABLE TRADING- The board of trade shall establish and
enforce trading rules to ensure fair and equitable trading through the
facilities of the contract market, and the capacity to detect, investigate, and
discipline any person that violates the rules. The rules may authorize--
`(A) transfer trades or office trades;
`(B) an exchange of--
`(i) futures in connection with a cash commodity transaction;
`(ii) futures for cash commodities; or
`(iii) futures for swaps; or
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 24 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`(C) a futures commission merchant, acting as principal or agent, to
enter into or confirm the execution of a contract for the purchase or sale
of a commodity for future delivery if the contract is reported, recorded,
or cleared in accordance with the rules of the contract market or a
derivatives clearing organization.
`(4) TRADE EXECUTION FACILITY- The board of trade shall--
`(A) establish and enforce rules defining, or specifications detailing, the
manner of operation of the trade execution facility maintained by the
board of trade, including rules or specifications describing the operation
of any electronic matching platform; and
`(B) demonstrate that the trade execution facility operates in
accordance with the rules or specifications.
`(5) FINANCIAL INTEGRITY OF TRANSACTIONS- The board of trade shall
establish and enforce rules and procedures for ensuring the financial integrity
of transactions entered into by or through the facilities of the contract
market, including the clearance and settlement of the transactions with a
derivatives clearing organization.
`(6) DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURES- The board of trade shall establish and
enforce disciplinary procedures that authorize the board of trade to
discipline, suspend, or expel members or market participants that violate the
rules of the board of trade, or similar methods for performing the same
functions, including delegation of the functions to third parties.
`(7) PUBLIC ACCESS- The board of trade shall provide the public with access
to the rules, regulations, and contract specifications of the board of trade.
`(8) ABILITY TO OBTAIN INFORMATION- The board of trade shall establish
and enforce rules that will allow the board of trade to obtain any necessary
information to perform any of the functions described in this subsection,
including the capacity to carry out such international information-sharing
agreements as the Commission may require.
`(c) EXISTING CONTRACT MARKETS- A board of trade that is designated as a
contract market on the date of the enactment of the Commodity Futures
Modernization Act of 2000 shall be considered to be a designated contract market
under this section.
`(d) CORE PRINCIPLES FOR CONTRACT MARKETS-
`(1) IN GENERAL- To maintain the designation of a board of trade as a
contract market, the board of trade shall comply with the core principles
specified in this subsection. The board of trade shall have reasonable
discretion in establishing the manner in which it complies with the core
principles.
`(2) COMPLIANCE WITH RULES- The board of trade shall monitor and
enforce compliance with the rules of the contract market, including the terms
and conditions of any contracts to be traded and any limitations on access to
the contract market.
`(3) CONTRACTS NOT READILY SUBJECT TO MANIPULATION- The board of
trade shall list on the contract market only contracts that are not readily
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 25 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
susceptible to manipulation.
`(4) MONITORING OF TRADING- The board of trade shall monitor trading to
prevent manipulation, price distortion, and disruptions of the delivery or
cash-settlement process.
`(5) POSITION LIMITATIONS OR ACCOUNTABILITY- To reduce the potential
threat of market manipulation or congestion, especially during trading in the
delivery month, the board of trade shall adopt position limitations or position
accountability for speculators, where necessary and appropriate.
`(6) EMERGENCY AUTHORITY- The board of trade shall adopt rules to
provide for the exercise of emergency authority, in consultation or
cooperation with the Commission, where necessary and appropriate,
including the authority to--
`(A) liquidate or transfer open positions in any contract;
`(B) suspend or curtail trading in any contract; and
`(C) require market participants in any contract to meet special margin
requirements.
`(7) AVAILABILITY OF GENERAL INFORMATION- The board of trade shall
make available to market authorities, market participants, and the public
information concerning--
`(A) the terms and conditions of the contracts of the contract market;
and
`(B) the mechanisms for executing transactions on or through the
facilities of the contract market.
`(8) DAILY PUBLICATION OF TRADING INFORMATION- The board of trade
shall make public daily information on settlement prices, volume, open
interest, and opening and closing ranges for actively traded contracts on the
contract market.
`(9) EXECUTION OF TRANSACTIONS- The board of trade shall provide a
competitive, open, and efficient market and mechanism for executing
transactions.
`(10) TRADE INFORMATION- The board of trade shall maintain rules and
procedures to provide for the recording and safe storage of all identifying
trade information in a manner that enables the contract market to use the
information for purposes of assisting in the prevention of customer and
market abuses and providing evidence of any violations of the rules of the
contract market.
`(11) FINANCIAL INTEGRITY OF CONTRACTS- The board of trade shall
establish and enforce rules providing for the financial integrity of any
contracts traded on the contract market (including the clearance and
settlement of the transactions with a derivatives clearing organization), and
rules to ensure the financial integrity of any futures commission merchants
and introducing brokers and the protection of customer funds.
`(12) PROTECTION OF MARKET PARTICIPANTS- The board of trade shall
establish and enforce rules to protect market participants from abusive
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 26 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
practices committed by any party acting as an agent for the participants.
`(13) DISPUTE RESOLUTION- The board of trade shall establish and enforce
rules regarding and provide facilities for alternative dispute resolution as
appropriate for market participants and any market intermediaries.
`(14) GOVERNANCE FITNESS STANDARDS- The board of trade shall establish
and enforce appropriate fitness standards for directors, members of any
disciplinary committee, members of the contract market, and any other
persons with direct access to the facility (including any parties affiliated with
any of the persons described in this paragraph).
`(15) CONFLICTS OF INTEREST- The board of trade shall establish and
enforce rules to minimize conflicts of interest in the decisionmaking process
of the contract market and establish a process for resolving such conflicts of
interest.
`(16) COMPOSITION OF BOARDS OF MUTUALLY OWNED CONTRACT
MARKETS- In the case of a mutually owned contract market, the board of
trade shall ensure that the composition of the governing board reflects
market participants.
`(17) RECORDKEEPING- The board of trade shall maintain records of all
activities related to the business of the contract market in a form and
manner acceptable to the Commission for a period of 5 years.
`(18) ANTITRUST CONSIDERATIONS- Unless necessary or appropriate to
achieve the purposes of this Act, the board of trade shall endeavor to avoid--
`(A) adopting any rules or taking any actions that result in any
unreasonable restraints of trade; or
`(B) imposing any material anticompetitive burden on trading on the
contract market.
`(e) CURRENT AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES-
`(1) Subject to paragraph (2) of this subsection, a contract for purchase or
sale for future delivery of an agricultural commodity enumerated in section
1a(4) that is available for trade on a contract market, as of the date of the
enactment of this subsection, may be traded only on a contract market
designated under this section.
`(2) In order to promote responsible economic or financial innovation and
fair competition, the Commission, on application by any person, after notice
and public comment and opportunity for hearing, may prescribe rules and
regulations to provide for the offer and sale of contracts for future delivery or
options on such contracts to be conducted on a derivatives transaction
execution facility.'.
SEC. 111. DERIVATIVES TRANSACTION EXECUTION FACILITIES.
The Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.) is amended by inserting after
section 5 (as amended by section 110(2)) the following:
`SEC. 5a. DERIVATIVES TRANSACTION EXECUTION FACILITIES.
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 27 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`(a) IN GENERAL- In lieu of compliance with the contract market designation
requirements of sections 4(a) and 5, a board of trade may elect to operate as a
registered derivatives transaction execution facility if the facility is--
`(1) designated as a contract market and meets the requirements of this
section; or
`(2) registered as a derivatives transaction execution facility under
subsection (c) of this section.
`(b) REQUIREMENTS FOR TRADING-
`(1) IN GENERAL- A registered derivatives transaction execution facility
under subsection (a) may trade any contract of sale of a commodity for
future delivery (or option on such a contract) on or through the facility only
by satisfying the requirements of this section.
`(2) REQUIREMENTS FOR UNDERLYING COMMODITIES- A registered
derivatives transaction execution facility may trade any contract of sale of a
commodity for future delivery (or option on such a contract) only if--
`(A) the underlying commodity has a nearly inexhaustible deliverable
supply;
`(B) the underlying commodity has a deliverable supply that is
sufficiently large that the contract is highly unlikely to be susceptible to
the threat of manipulation;
`(C) the underlying commodity has no cash market;
`(D)(i) the contract is a security futures product, and (ii) the registered
derivatives transaction execution facility is a national securities
exchange registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
`(E) the Commission determines, based on the market characteristics,
surveillance history, self-regulatory record, and capacity of the facility
that trading in the contract (or option) is highly unlikely to be
susceptible to the threat of manipulation; or
`(F) except as provided in section 5(e)(2), the underlying commodity is
a commodity other than an agricultural commodity enumerated in
section 1a(4), and trading access to the facility is limited to eligible
commercial entities trading for their own account.
`(3) ELIGIBLE TRADERS- To trade on a registered derivatives transaction
execution facility, a person shall--
`(A) be an eligible contract participant; or
`(B) be a person trading through a futures commission merchant that--
`(i) is registered with the Commission;
`(ii) is a member of a futures self-regulatory organization or, if the
person trades only security futures products on the facility, a
national securities association registered under section 15A(a) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
`(iii) is a clearing member of a derivatives clearing organization;
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 28 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
and
`(iv) has net capital of at least $20,000,000.
`(4) TRADING BY CONTRACT MARKETS- A board of trade that is designated
as a contract market shall, to the extent that the contract market also
operates a registered derivatives transaction execution facility--
`(A) provide a physical location for the contract market trading of the
board of trade that is separate from trading on the derivatives
transaction execution facility of the board of trade; or
`(B) if the board of trade uses the same electronic trading system for
trading on the contract market and derivatives transaction execution
facility of the board of trade, identify whether the electronic trading is
taking place on the contract market or the derivatives transaction
execution facility.
`(c) CRITERIA FOR REGISTRATION-
`(1) IN GENERAL- To be registered as a registered derivatives transaction
execution facility, the board of trade shall be required to demonstrate to the
Commission only that the board of trade meets the criteria specified in
subsection (b) and this subsection.
`(2) DETERRENCE OF ABUSES- The board of trade shall establish and
enforce trading and participation rules that will deter abuses and has the
capacity to detect, investigate, and enforce those rules, including means to--
`(A) obtain information necessary to perform the functions required
under this section; or
`(B) use technological means to--
`(i) provide market participants with impartial access to the
market; and
`(ii) capture information that may be used in establishing whether
rule violations have occurred.
`(3) TRADING PROCEDURES- The board of trade shall establish and enforce
rules or terms and conditions defining, or specifications detailing, trading
procedures to be used in entering and executing orders traded on the
facilities of the board of trade. The rules may authorize--
`(A) transfer trades or office trades;
`(B) an exchange of--
`(i) futures in connection with a cash commodity transaction;
`(ii) futures for cash commodities; or
`(iii) futures for swaps; or
`(C) a futures commission merchant, acting as principal or agent, to
enter into or confirm the execution of a contract for the purchase or sale
of a commodity for future delivery if the contract is reported, recorded,
or cleared in accordance with the rules of the registered derivatives
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 29 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
transaction execution facility or a derivatives clearing organization.
`(4) FINANCIAL INTEGRITY OF TRANSACTIONS- The board of trade shall
establish and enforce rules or terms and conditions providing for the financial
integrity of transactions entered on or through the facilities of the board of
trade, and rules or terms and conditions to ensure the financial integrity of
any futures commission merchants and introducing brokers and the
protection of customer funds.
`(d) CORE PRINCIPLES FOR REGISTERED DERIVATIVES TRANSACTION
EXECUTION FACILITIES-
`(1) IN GENERAL- To maintain the registration of a board of trade as a
derivatives transaction execution facility, a board of trade shall comply with
the core principles specified in this subsection. The board of trade shall have
reasonable discretion in establishing the manner in which the board of trade
complies with the core principles.
`(2) COMPLIANCE WITH RULES- The board of trade shall monitor and
enforce the rules of the facility, including any terms and conditions of any
contracts traded on or through the facility and any limitations on access to
the facility.
`(3) MONITORING OF TRADING- The board of trade shall monitor trading in
the contracts of the facility to ensure orderly trading in the contract and to
maintain an orderly market while providing any necessary trading
information to the Commission to allow the Commission to discharge the
responsibilities of the Commission under the Act.
`(4) DISCLOSURE OF GENERAL INFORMATION- The board of trade shall
disclose publicly and to the Commission information concerning--
`(A) contract terms and conditions;
`(B) trading conventions, mechanisms, and practices;
`(C) financial integrity protections; and
`(D) other information relevant to participation in trading on the facility.
`(5) DAILY PUBLICATION OF TRADING INFORMATION- The board of trade
shall make public daily information on settlement prices, volume, open
interest, and opening and closing ranges for contracts traded on the facility if
the Commission determines that the contracts perform a significant price
discovery function for transactions in the cash market for the commodity
underlying the contracts.
`(6) FITNESS STANDARDS- The board of trade shall establish and enforce
appropriate fitness standards for directors, members of any disciplinary
committee, members, and any other persons with direct access to the
facility, including any parties affiliated with any of the persons described in
this paragraph.
`(7) CONFLICTS OF INTEREST- The board of trade shall establish and
enforce rules to minimize conflicts of interest in the decision making process
of the derivatives transaction execution facility and establish a process for
resolving such conflicts of interest.
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 30 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`(8) RECORDKEEPING- The board of trade shall maintain records of all
activities related to the business of the derivatives transaction execution
facility in a form and manner acceptable to the Commission for a period of 5
years.
`(9) ANTITRUST CONSIDERATIONS- Unless necessary or appropriate to
achieve the purposes of this Act, the board of trade shall endeavor to avoid--
`(A) adopting any rules or taking any actions that result in any
unreasonable restraint of trade; or
`(B) imposing any material anticompetitive burden on trading on the
derivatives transaction execution facility.
`(e) USE OF BROKER-DEALERS, DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS, AND FARM CREDIT
SYSTEM INSTITUTIONS AS INTERMEDIARIES-
`(1) IN GENERAL- With respect to transactions other than transactions in
security futures products, a registered derivatives transaction execution
facility may by rule allow a broker-dealer, depository institution, or institution
of the Farm Credit System that meets the requirements of paragraph (2) to-
-
`(A) act as an intermediary in transactions executed on the facility on
behalf of customers of the broker-dealer, depository institution, or
institution of the Farm Credit System; and
`(B) receive funds of customers to serve as margin or security for the
transactions.
`(2) REQUIREMENTS- The requirements referred to in paragraph (1) are
that--
`(A) the broker-dealer be in good standing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, or the depository institution or institution of the
Farm Credit System be in good standing with Federal bank regulatory
agencies (including the Farm Credit Administration), as applicable; and
`(B) if the broker-dealer, depository institution, or institution of the
Farm Credit System carries or holds customer accounts or funds for
transactions on the derivatives transaction execution facility for more
than 1 business day, the broker-dealer, depository institution, or
institution of the Farm Credit System is registered as a futures
commission merchant and is a member of a registered futures
association.
`(3) IMPLEMENTATION- The Commission shall cooperate and coordinate with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Secretary of the Treasury, and
Federal banking regulatory agencies (including the Farm Credit
Administration) in adopting rules and taking any other appropriate action to
facilitate the implementation of this subsection.
`(f) SEGREGATION OF CUSTOMER FUNDS- Not later than 180 days after the date
of the enactment of the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000, consistent
with regulations adopted by the Commission, a registered derivatives transaction
execution facility may authorize a futures commission merchant to offer any
customer of the futures commission merchant that is an eligible contract
participant the right to not segregate the customer funds of the customer that are
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 31 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
carried with the futures commission merchant for purposes of trading on or
through the facilities of the registered derivatives transaction execution facility.
`(g) ELECTION TO TRADE EXCLUDED AND EXEMPT COMMODITIES-
`(1) IN GENERAL- Notwithstanding subsection (b)(2) of this section, a board
of trade that is or elects to become a registered derivatives transaction
execution facility may trade on the facility any agreements, contracts, or
transactions involving excluded or exempt commodities other than securities,
except contracts of sale for future delivery of exempt securities under section
3(a)(12) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as in effect on the date of
the enactment of the Futures Trading Act of 1982, that are otherwise
excluded from this Act under section 2(c), 2(d), or 2(g) of this Act, or
exempt under section 2(h) of this Act.
`(2) EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COMMISSION- The Commission shall
have exclusive jurisdiction over agreements, contracts, or transactions
described in paragraph (1) to the extent that the agreements, contracts, or
transactions are traded on a derivatives transaction execution facility.'.
SEC. 112. DERIVATIVES CLEARING.
(a) IN GENERAL- Subtitle A of title IV of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 is amended--
(1) by inserting before the section heading for section 401, the following new
heading:
`CHAPTER 1--BILATERAL AND CLEARING ORGANIZATION
NETTING';
(2) in section 402, by striking `this subtitle' and inserting `this chapter'; and
(3) by inserting after section 407, the following new chapter:
`CHAPTER 2--MULTILATERAL CLEARING ORGANIZATIONS
`SEC. 408. DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
`(1) MULTILATERAL CLEARING ORGANIZATION- The term `multilateral
clearing organization' means a system utilized by more than two participants
in which the bilateral credit exposures of participants arising from the
transactions cleared are effectively eliminated and replaced by a system of
guarantees, insurance, or mutualized risk of loss.
`(2) OVER-THE-COUNTER DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENT- The term `over-the-
counter derivative instrument' includes--
`(A) any agreement, contract, or transaction, including the terms and
conditions incorporated by reference in any such agreement, contract, or
transaction, which is an interest rate swap, option, or forward
agreement, including a rate floor, rate cap, rate collar, cross-currency
rate swap, basis swap, and forward rate agreement; a same day-
tomorrow, tomorrow-next, forward, or other foreign exchange or
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 32 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
precious metals agreement; a currency swap, option, or forward
agreement; an equity index or equity swap, option, or forward
agreement; a debt index or debt swap, option, or forward agreement; a
credit spread or credit swap, option, or forward agreement; a
commodity index or commodity swap, option, or forward agreement;
and a weather swap, weather derivative, or weather option;
`(B) any agreement, contract or transaction similar to any other
agreement, contract, or transaction referred to in this clause that is
presently, or in the future becomes, regularly entered into by parties
that participate in swap transactions (including terms and conditions
incorporated by reference in the agreement) and that is a forward,
swap, or option on one or more occurrences of any event, rates,
currencies, commodities, equity securities or other equity instruments,
debt securities or other debt instruments, economic or other indices or
measures of economic or other risk or value;
`(C) any agreement, contract, or transaction excluded from the
Commodity Exchange Act under section 2(c), 2(d), 2(f), or 2(g) of such
Act, or exempted under section 2(h) or 4(c) of such Act; and
`(D) any option to enter into any, or any combination of, agreements,
contracts or transactions referred to in this subparagraph.
`(3) OTHER DEFINITIONS- The terms `insured State nonmember bank',
`State member bank', and `affiliate' have the same meanings as in section 3
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.
`SEC. 409. MULTILATERAL CLEARING ORGANIZATIONS.
`(a) IN GENERAL- Except with respect to clearing organizations described in
subsection (b), no person may operate a multilateral clearing organization for
over-the-counter derivative instruments, or otherwise engage in activities that
constitute such a multilateral clearing organization unless the person is a national
bank, a State member bank, an insured State nonmember bank, an affiliate of a
national bank, a State member bank, or an insured State nonmember bank, or a
corporation chartered under section 25A of the Federal Reserve Act.
`(b) CLEARING ORGANIZATIONS- Subsection (a) shall not apply to any clearing
organization that--
`(1) is registered as a clearing agency under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934;
`(2) is registered as a derivatives clearing organization under the Commodity
Exchange Act; or
`(3) is supervised by a foreign financial regulator that the Comptroller of the
Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, as applicable, has determined
satisfies appropriate standards.'.
(b) RESOLUTION OF CLEARING BANKS- The Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 221
et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 9A the following new section:
`SEC. 9B. RESOLUTION OF CLEARING BANKS.
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 33 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`(a) CONSERVATORSHIP OR RECEIVERSHIP-
`(1) APPOINTMENT- The Board may appoint a conservator or receiver to
take possession and control of any uninsured State member bank which
operates, or operates as, a multilateral clearing organization pursuant to
section 409 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of
1991 to the same extent and in the same manner as the Comptroller of the
Currency may appoint a conservator or receiver for a national bank.
`(2) POWERS- The conservator or receiver for an uninsured State member
bank referred to in paragraph (1) shall exercise the same powers, functions,
and duties, subject to the same limitations, as a conservator or receiver for a
national bank.
`(b) BOARD AUTHORITY- The Board shall have the same authority with respect to
any conservator or receiver appointed under subsection (a), and the uninsured
State member bank for which the conservator or receiver has been appointed, as
the Comptroller of the Currency has with respect to a conservator or receiver for
a national bank and the national bank for which the conservator or receiver has
been appointed.
`(c) BANKRUPTCY PROCEEDINGS- The Board (in the case of an uninsured State
member bank which operates, or operates as, such a multilateral clearing
organization) may direct a conservator or receiver appointed for the bank to file a
petition pursuant to title 11, United States Code, in which case, title 11, United
States Code, shall apply to the bank in lieu of otherwise applicable Federal or
State insolvency law.'.
(c) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO TITLE 11, UNITED STATES
CODE-
(1) BANKRUPTCY CODE DEBTORS- Section 109(b)(2) of title 11, United
States Code, is amended by striking `; or' and inserting the following: `,
except that an uninsured State member bank, or a corporation organized
under section 25A of the Federal Reserve Act, which operates, or operates
as, a multilateral clearing organization pursuant to section 409 of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 may be a debtor if
a petition is filed at the direction of the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System; or'.
(2) CHAPTER 7 DEBTORS- Section 109(d) of title 11, United States Code, is
amended to read as follows:
`(d) Only a railroad, a person that may be a debtor under chapter 7 of this title
(except a stockbroker or a commodity broker), and an uninsured State member
bank, or a corporation organized under section 25A of the Federal Reserve Act,
which operates, or operates as, a multilateral clearing organization pursuant to
section 409 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of
1991 may be a debtor under chapter 11 of this title.'.
(3) DEFINITION OF FINANCIAL INSTITUTION- Section 101(22) of title 11,
United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
`(22) the term `financial institution'--
`(A) means--
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 34 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`(i) a Federal reserve bank or an entity (domestic or foreign) that
is a commercial or savings bank, industrial savings bank, savings
and loan association, trust company, or receiver or conservator for
such entity and, when any such Federal reserve bank, receiver,
conservator, or entity is acting as agent or custodian for a
customer in connection with a securities contract, as defined in
section 741 of this title, the customer; or
`(ii) in connection with a securities contract, as defined in section
741 of this title, an investment company registered under the
Investment Company Act of 1940; and
`(B) includes any person described in subparagraph (A) which operates,
or operates as, a multilateral clearing organization pursuant to section
409 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of
1991;'.
(4) DEFINITION OF UNINSURED STATE MEMBER BANK- Section 101 of title
11, United States Code, is amended by inserting after paragraph (54) the
following new paragraph--
`(54A) the term `uninsured State member bank' means a State member bank (as
defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act) the deposits of which
are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; and'.
(5) SUBCHAPTER V OF CHAPTER 7-
(A) IN GENERAL- Section 103 of title 11, United States Code, is
amended--
(i) by redesignating subsections (e) through (i) as subsections (f)
through (j), respectively; and
(ii) by inserting after subsection (d) the following new subsection:
`(e) SCOPE OF APPLICATION- Subchapter V of chapter 7 of this title shall apply
only in a case under such chapter concerning the liquidation of an uninsured State
member bank, or a corporation organized under section 25A of the Federal
Reserve Act, which operates, or operates as, a multilateral clearing organization
pursuant to section 409 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
Improvement Act of 1991.'.
(B) CLEARING BANK LIQUIDATION- Chapter 7 of title 11, United States
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subchapter:
`SUBCHAPTER V--CLEARING BANK LIQUIDATION
`Sec. 781. Definitions
`For purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply:
`(1) BOARD- The term `Board' means the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System.
`(2) DEPOSITORY INSTITUTION- The term `depository institution' has the
same meaning as in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.
`(3) CLEARING BANK- The term `clearing bank' means an uninsured State
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 35 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
member bank, or a corporation organized under section 25A of the Federal
Reserve Act, which operates, or operates as, a multilateral clearing
organization pursuant to section 409 of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation Improvement Act of 1991.
`Sec. 782. Selection of trustee
`(a) IN GENERAL-
`(1) APPOINTMENT- Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, the
conservator or receiver who files the petition shall be the trustee under this
chapter, unless the Board designates an alternative trustee.
`(2) SUCCESSOR- The Board may designate a successor trustee if required.
`(b) AUTHORITY OF TRUSTEE- Whenever the Board appoints or designates a
trustee, chapter 3 and sections 704 and 705 of this title shall apply to the Board
in the same way and to the same extent that they apply to a United States
trustee.
`Sec. 783. Additional powers of trustee
`(a) DISTRIBUTION OF PROPERTY NOT OF THE ESTATE- The trustee under this
subchapter has power to distribute property not of the estate, including
distributions to customers that are mandated by subchapters III and IV of this
chapter.
`(b) DISPOSITION OF INSTITUTION- The trustee under this subchapter may,
after notice and a hearing--
`(1) sell the clearing bank to a depository institution or consortium of
depository institutions (which consortium may agree on the allocation of the
clearing bank among the consortium);
`(2) merge the clearing bank with a depository institution;
`(3) transfer contracts to the same extent as could a receiver for a
depository institution under paragraphs (9) and (10) of section 11(e) of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Act;
`(4) transfer assets or liabilities to a depository institution; and
`(5) transfer assets and liabilities to a bridge bank as provided in paragraphs
(1), (3)(A), (5), and (6) of section 11(n) of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Act, paragraphs (9) through (13) of such section, and subparagraphs (A)
through (H) and subparagraph (K) of paragraph (4) of such section 11(n),
except that--
`(A) the bridge bank to which such assets or liabilities are transferred
shall be treated as a clearing bank for the purpose of this subsection;
and
`(B) any references in any such provision of law to the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation shall be construed to be references to the
appointing agency and that references to deposit insurance shall be
omitted.
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 36 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`(c) CERTAIN TRANSFERS INCLUDED- Any reference in this section to transfers of
liabilities includes a ratable transfer of liabilities within a priority class.
`Sec. 784. Right to be heard
`The Board or a Federal reserve bank (in the case of a clearing bank that is a
member of that bank) may raise and may appear and be heard on any issue in a
case under this subchapter.'.
(6) DEFINITIONS OF CLEARING ORGANIZATION, CONTRACT MARKET, AND
RELATED DEFINITIONS-
(A) Section 761(2) of title 11, United States Code, is amended to read
as follows:
`(2) `clearing organization' means a derivatives clearing organization
registered under the Act;'.
(B) Section 761(7) of title 11, United States Code, is amended to read
as follows:
`(7) `contract market' means a registered entity;'.
(C) Section 761(8) of title 11, United States Code, is amended to read
as follows:
`(8) `contract of sale', `commodity', `derivatives clearing organization',
`future delivery', `board of trade', `registered entity', and `futures
commission merchant' have the meanings assigned to those terms in the
Act;'.
(d) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The table of sections for chapter 7 of title 11, United
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new items:
`SUBCHAPTER V--CLEARING BANK LIQUIDATION
`Sec.
`781. Definitions.
`782. Selection of trustee.
`783. Additional powers of trustee.
`784. Right to be heard.'.
(e) RESOLUTION OF EDGE ACT CORPORATIONS- The 16th undesignated
paragraph of section 25A of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 624) is amended
to read as follows:
`(16) APPOINTMENT OF RECEIVER OR CONSERVATOR-
`(A) IN GENERAL- The Board may appoint a conservator or receiver for
a corporation organized under the provisions of this section to the same
extent and in the same manner as the Comptroller of the Currency may
appoint a conservator or receiver for a national bank, and the
conservator or receiver for such corporation shall exercise the same
powers, functions, and duties, subject to the same limitations, as a
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 37 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
conservator or receiver for a national bank.
`(B) EQUIVALENT AUTHORITY- The Board shall have the same authority
with respect to any conservator or receiver appointed for a corporation
organized under the provisions of this section under this paragraph and
any such corporation as the Comptroller of the Currency has with
respect to a conservator or receiver of a national bank and the national
bank for which a conservator or receiver has been appointed.
`(C) TITLE 11 PETITIONS- The Board may direct the conservator or
receiver of a corporation organized under the provisions of this section
to file a petition pursuant to title 11, United States Code, in which case,
title 11, United States Code, shall apply to the corporation in lieu of
otherwise applicable Federal or State insolvency law.'.
(f) DERIVATIVES CLEARING ORGANIZATIONS- The Commodity Exchange Act (7
U.S.C. 1 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 5a, as added by section
111 of this Act, the following:
`SEC. 5b. DERIVATIVES CLEARING ORGANIZATIONS.
`(a) REGISTRATION REQUIREMENT- It shall be unlawful for a derivatives clearing
organization, unless registered with the Commission, directly or indirectly to make
use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce to
perform the functions of a derivatives clearing organization described in section
1a(9) of this Act with respect to a contract of sale of a commodity for future
delivery (or option on such a contract) or option on a commodity, in each case
unless the contract or option--
`(1) is excluded from this Act by section 2(a)(1)(C)(i), 2(c), 2(d), 2(f), or
2(g) of this Act or title IV of the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of
2000, or exempted under section 2(h) or 4(c) of this Act; or
`(2) is a security futures product cleared by a clearing agency registered
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
`(b) VOLUNTARY REGISTRATION- A derivatives clearing organization that clears
agreements, contracts, or transactions excluded from this Act by section 2(c),
2(d), 2(f), or 2(g) of this Act or title IV of the Commodity Futures Modernization
Act of 2000, or exempted under section 2(h) or 4(c) of this Act, or other over-
the-counter derivative instruments (as defined in the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation Improvement Act of 1991) may register with the Commission as a
derivatives clearing organization.
`(c) REGISTRATION OF DERIVATIVES CLEARING ORGANIZATIONS-
`(1) APPLICATION- A person desiring to register as a derivatives clearing
organization shall submit to the Commission an application in such form and
containing such information as the Commission may require for the purpose
of making the determinations required for approval under paragraph (2).
`(2) CORE PRINCIPLES-
`(A) IN GENERAL- To be registered and to maintain registration as a
derivatives clearing organization, an applicant shall demonstrate to the
Commission that the applicant complies with the core principles specified
in this paragraph. The applicant shall have reasonable discretion in
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 38 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
establishing the manner in which it complies with the core principles.
`(B) FINANCIAL RESOURCES- The applicant shall demonstrate that the
applicant has adequate financial, operational, and managerial resources
to discharge the responsibilities of a derivatives clearing organization.
`(C) PARTICIPANT AND PRODUCT ELIGIBILITY- The applicant shall
establish--
`(i) appropriate admission and continuing eligibility standards
(including appropriate minimum financial requirements) for
members of and participants in the organization; and
`(ii) appropriate standards for determining eligibility of
agreements, contracts, or transactions submitted to the applicant.
`(D) RISK MANAGEMENT- The applicant shall have the ability to manage
the risks associated with discharging the responsibilities of a derivatives
clearing organization through the use of appropriate tools and
procedures.
`(E) SETTLEMENT PROCEDURES- The applicant shall have the ability to-
-
`(i) complete settlements on a timely basis under varying
circumstances;
`(ii) maintain an adequate record of the flow of funds associated
with each transaction that the applicant clears; and
`(iii) comply with the terms and conditions of any permitted netting
or offset arrangements with other clearing organizations.
`(F) TREATMENT OF FUNDS- The applicant shall have standards and
procedures designed to protect and ensure the safety of member and
participant funds.
`(G) DEFAULT RULES AND PROCEDURES- The applicant shall have rules
and procedures designed to allow for efficient, fair, and safe
management of events when members or participants become insolvent
or otherwise default on their obligations to the derivatives clearing
organization.
`(H) RULE ENFORCEMENT- The applicant shall--
`(i) maintain adequate arrangements and resources for the
effective monitoring and enforcement of compliance with rules of
the applicant and for resolution of disputes; and
`(ii) have the authority and ability to discipline, limit, suspend, or
terminate a member's or participant's activities for violations of
rules of the applicant.
`(I) SYSTEM SAFEGUARDS- The applicant shall demonstrate that the
applicant--
`(i) has established and will maintain a program of oversight and
risk analysis to ensure that the automated systems of the applicant
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 39 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
function properly and have adequate capacity and security; and
`(ii) has established and will maintain emergency procedures and a
plan for disaster recovery, and will periodically test backup facilities
sufficient to ensure daily processing, clearing, and settlement of
transactions.
`(J) REPORTING- The applicant shall provide to the Commission all
information necessary for the Commission to conduct the oversight
function of the applicant with respect to the activities of the derivatives
clearing organization.
`(K) RECORDKEEPING- The applicant shall maintain records of all
activities related to the business of the applicant as a derivatives
clearing organization in a form and manner acceptable to the
Commission for a period of 5 years.
`(L) PUBLIC INFORMATION- The applicant shall make information
concerning the rules and operating procedures governing the clearing
and settlement systems (including default procedures) available to
market participants.
`(M) INFORMATION-SHARING- The applicant shall--
`(i) enter into and abide by the terms of all appropriate and
applicable domestic and international information-sharing
agreements; and
`(ii) use relevant information obtained from the agreements in
carrying out the clearing organization's risk management program.
`(N) ANTITRUST CONSIDERATIONS- Unless appropriate to achieve the
purposes of this Act, the derivatives clearing organization shall avoid--
`(i) adopting any rule or taking any action that results in any
unreasonable restraint of trade; or
`(ii) imposing any material anticompetitive burden on trading on
the contract market.
`(3) ORDERS CONCERNING COMPETITION- A derivatives clearing
organization may request the Commission to issue an order concerning
whether a rule or practice of the applicant is the least anticompetitive means
of achieving the objectives, purposes, and policies of this Act.
`(d) EXISTING DERIVATIVES CLEARING ORGANIZATIONS- A derivatives clearing
organization shall be deemed to be registered under this section to the extent
that the derivatives clearing organization clears agreements, contracts, or
transactions for a board of trade that has been designated by the Commission as
a contract market for such agreements, contracts, or transactions before the date
of the enactment of this section.
`(e) APPOINTMENT OF TRUSTEE-
`(1) IN GENERAL- If a proceeding under section 5e results in the suspension
or revocation of the registration of a derivatives clearing organization, or if a
derivatives clearing organization withdraws from registration, the
Commission, on notice to the derivatives clearing organization, may apply to
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 40 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
the appropriate United States district court where the derivatives clearing
organization is located for the appointment of a trustee.
`(2) ASSUMPTION OF JURISDICTION- If the Commission applies for
appointment of a trustee under paragraph (1)--
`(A) the court may take exclusive jurisdiction over the derivatives
clearing organization and the records and assets of the derivatives
clearing organization, wherever located; and
`(B) if the court takes jurisdiction under subparagraph (A), the court
shall appoint the Commission, or a person designated by the
Commission, as trustee with power to take possession and continue to
operate or terminate the operations of the derivatives clearing
organization in an orderly manner for the protection of participants,
subject to such terms and conditions as the court may prescribe.
`(f) LINKING OF REGULATED CLEARING FACILITIES-
`(1) IN GENERAL- The Commission shall facilitate the linking or coordination
of derivatives clearing organizations registered under this Act with other
regulated clearance facilities for the coordinated settlement of cleared
transactions.
`(2) COORDINATION- In carrying out paragraph (1), the Commission shall
coordinate with the Federal banking agencies and the Securities and
Exchange Commission.'.
SEC. 113. COMMON PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO REGISTERED
ENTITIES.
The Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.) is amended by inserting after
section 5b (as added by section 112(f)) the following:
`SEC. 5c. COMMON PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO REGISTERED
ENTITIES.
`(a) ACCEPTABLE BUSINESS PRACTICES UNDER CORE PRINCIPLES-
`(1) IN GENERAL- Consistent with the purposes of this Act, the Commission
may issue interpretations, or approve interpretations submitted to the
Commission, of sections 5(d), 5a(d), and 5b(d)(2) to describe what would
constitute an acceptable business practice under such sections.
`(2) EFFECT OF INTERPRETATION- An interpretation issued under paragraph
(1) shall not provide the exclusive means for complying with such sections.
`(b) DELEGATION OF FUNCTIONS UNDER CORE PRINCIPLES-
`(1) IN GENERAL- A contract market or derivatives transaction execution
facility may comply with any applicable core principle through delegation of
any relevant function to a registered futures association or another registered
entity.
`(2) RESPONSIBILITY- A contract market or derivatives transaction execution
facility that delegates a function under paragraph (1) shall remain
responsible for carrying out the function.
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 41 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`(3) NONCOMPLIANCE- If a contract market or derivatives transaction
execution facility that delegates a function under paragraph (1) becomes
aware that a delegated function is not being performed as required under
this Act, the contract market or derivatives transaction execution facility shall
promptly take steps to address the noncompliance.
`(c) NEW CONTRACTS, NEW RULES, AND RULE AMENDMENTS-
`(1) IN GENERAL- Subject to paragraph (2), a registered entity may elect to
list for trading or accept for clearing any new contract or other instrument,
or may elect to approve and implement any new rule or rule amendment, by
providing to the Commission (and the Secretary of the Treasury, in the case
of a contract of sale of a government security for future delivery (or option
on such a contract) or a rule or rule amendment specifically related to such a
contract) a written certification that the new contract or instrument or
clearing of the new contract or instrument, new rule, or rule amendment
complies with this Act (including regulations under this Act).
`(2) PRIOR APPROVAL-
`(A) IN GENERAL- A registered entity may request that the Commission
grant prior approval to any new contract or other instrument, new rule,
or rule amendment.
`(B) PRIOR APPROVAL REQUIRED- Notwithstanding any other provision
of this section, a designated contract market shall submit to the
Commission for prior approval each rule amendment that materially
changes the terms and conditions, as determined by the Commission, in
any contract of sale for future delivery of a commodity specifically
enumerated in section 1a(4) (or any option thereon) traded through its
facilities if the rule amendment applies to contracts and delivery months
which have already been listed for trading and have open interest.
`(C) DEADLINE- If prior approval is requested under subparagraph (A),
the Commission shall take final action on the request not later than 90
days after submission of the request, unless the person submitting the
request agrees to an extension of the time limitation established under
this subparagraph.
`(3) APPROVAL- The Commission shall approve any such new contract or
instrument, new rule, or rule amendment unless the Commission finds that
the new contract or instrument, new rule, or rule amendment would violate
this Act.
`(d) VIOLATION OF CORE PRINCIPLES-
`(1) IN GENERAL- If the Commission determines, on the basis of substantial
evidence, that a registered entity is violating any applicable core principle
specified in section 5(d), 5a(d), or 5b(d)(2), the Commission shall--
`(A) notify the registered entity in writing of the determination; and
`(B) afford the registered entity an opportunity to make appropriate
changes to bring the registered entity into compliance with the core
principles.
`(2) FAILURE TO MAKE CHANGES- If, not later than 30 days after receiving
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 42 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
a notification under paragraph (1), a registered entity fails to make changes
that, in the opinion of the Commission, are necessary to comply with the
core principles, the Commission may take further action in accordance with
this Act.
`(e) RESERVATION OF EMERGENCY AUTHORITY- Nothing in this section shall limit
or in any way affect the emergency powers of the Commission provided in section
8a(9).'.
SEC. 114. EXEMPT BOARDS OF TRADE.
The Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.) is amended by inserting after
section 5c (as added by section 113) the following:
`SEC. 5d. EXEMPT BOARDS OF TRADE.
`(a) ELECTION TO REGISTER WITH THE COMMISSION- A board of trade that
meets the requirements of subsection (b) of this section may operate as an
exempt board of trade on receipt from the board of trade of a notice, provided in
such manner as the Commission may by rule or regulation prescribe, that the
board of trade elects to operate as an exempt board of trade. Except as otherwise
provided in this section, no provision of this Act (other than subparagraphs (C)
and (D) of sections 2(a)(1) and 12(e)(2)(B)) shall apply with respect to a contract
of sale of a commodity for future delivery (or option on such a contract) traded on
or through the facilities of an exempt board of trade.
`(b) CRITERIA FOR EXEMPTION- To qualify for an exemption under subsection
(a), a board of trade shall limit trading on or through the facilities of the board of
trade to contracts of sale of a commodity for future delivery (or options on such
contracts or on a commodity)--
`(1) for which the underlying commodity has--
`(A) a nearly inexhaustible deliverable supply;
`(B) a deliverable supply that is sufficiently large, and a cash market
sufficiently liquid, to render any contract traded on the commodity
highly unlikely to be susceptible to the threat of manipulation; or
`(C) no cash market;
`(2) that are entered into only between persons that are eligible contract
participants at the time at which the persons enter into the contract; and
`(3) that are not contracts of sale (or options on such a contract or on a
commodity) for future delivery of any security, including any group or index
of securities or any interest in, or based on the value of, any security or any
group or index of securities.
`(c) ANTIMANIPULATION REQUIREMENTS- A party to a contract of sale of a
commodity for future delivery (or option on such a contract or on a commodity)
that is traded on an exempt board of trade shall be subject to sections 4b, 4c(b),
4o, 6(c), and 9(a)(2), and the Commission shall enforce those provisions with
respect to any such trading.
`(d) PRICE DISCOVERY- If the Commission finds that an exempt board of trade is
a significant source of price discovery for transactions in the cash market for the
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 43 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
commodity underlying any contract, agreement, or transaction traded on or
through the facilities of the board of trade, the board of trade shall disseminate
publicly on a daily basis trading volume, opening and closing price ranges, open
interest, and other trading data as appropriate to the market.
`(e) JURISDICTION- The Commission shall have exclusive jurisdiction over any
account, agreement, contract, or transaction involving a contract of sale of a
commodity for future delivery, or option on such a contract or on a commodity, to
the extent that the account, agreement, contract, or transaction is traded on an
exempt board of trade.
`(f) SUBSIDIARIES- A board of trade that is designated as a contract market or
registered as a derivatives transaction execution facility may operate an exempt
board of trade by establishing a separate subsidiary or other legal entity and
otherwise satisfying the requirements of this section.
`(g) An exempt board of trade that meets the requirements of subsection (b)
shall not represent to any person that the board of trade is registered with, or
designated, recognized, licensed, or approved by the Commission.'.
SEC. 115. SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF DESIGNATION AS
CONTRACT MARKET.
Section 5e of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7b) (as redesignated by
section 20(1)) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 5e. SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF DESIGNATION AS
REGISTERED ENTITY.
`The failure of a registered entity to comply with any provision of this Act, or any
regulation or order of the Commission under this Act, shall be cause for the
suspension of the registered entity for a period not to exceed 180 days, or
revocation of designation as a registered entity in accordance with the procedures
and subject to the judicial review provided in section 6(b).'.
SEC. 116. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
Section 12(d) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 16(d)) is amended by
striking `2000' and inserting `2005'.
SEC. 117. PREEMPTION.
Section 12 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 16(e)) is amended by
striking subsection (e) and inserting the following:
`(e) RELATION TO OTHER LAW, DEPARTMENTS, OR AGENCIES-
`(1) Nothing in this Act shall supersede or preempt--
`(A) criminal prosecution under any Federal criminal statute;
`(B) the application of any Federal or State statute (except as provided
in paragraph (2)), including any rule or regulation thereunder, to any
transaction in or involving any commodity, product, right, service, or
interest--
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 44 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`(i) that is not conducted on or subject to the rules of a registered
entity or exempt board of trade;
`(ii) (except as otherwise specified by the Commission by rule or
regulation) that is not conducted on or subject to the rules of any
board of trade, exchange, or market located outside the United
States, its territories or possessions; or
`(iii) that is not subject to regulation by the Commission under
section 4c or 19; or
`(C) the application of any Federal or State statute, including any rule
or regulation thereunder, to any person required to be registered or
designated under this Act who shall fail or refuse to obtain such
registration or designation.
`(2) This Act shall supersede and preempt the application of any State or
local law that prohibits or regulates gaming or the operation of bucket shops
(other than antifraud provisions of general applicability) in the case of--
`(A) an electronic trading facility excluded under section 2(e) of this
Act; and
`(B) an agreement, contract, or transaction that is excluded from this
Act under section 2(c), 2(d), 2(f), or 2(g) of this Act or title IV of the
Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000, or exempted under
section 2(h) or 4(c) of this Act (regardless of whether any such
agreement, contract, or transaction is otherwise subject to this Act).'.
SEC. 118. PREDISPUTE RESOLUTION AGREEMENTS FOR
INSTITUTIONAL CUSTOMERS.
Section 14 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 18) is amended by striking
subsection (g) and inserting the following:
`(g) PREDISPUTE RESOLUTION AGREEMENTS FOR INSTITUTIONAL CUSTOMERS-
Nothing in this section prohibits a registered futures commission merchant from
requiring a customer that is an eligible contract participant, as a condition to the
commission merchant's conducting a transaction for the customer, to enter into
an agreement waiving the right to file a claim under this section.'.
SEC. 119. CONSIDERATION OF COSTS AND BENEFITS AND
ANTITRUST LAWS.
Section 15 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 19) is amended by striking
`SEC. 15. The Commission' and inserting the following:
`SEC. 15. CONSIDERATION OF COSTS AND BENEFITS AND
ANTITRUST LAWS.
`(a) COSTS AND BENEFITS-
`(1) IN GENERAL- Before promulgating a regulation under this Act or issuing
an order (except as provided in paragraph (3)), the Commission shall
consider the costs and benefits of the action of the Commission.
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 45 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`(2) CONSIDERATIONS- The costs and benefits of the proposed Commission
action shall be evaluated in light of--
`(A) considerations of protection of market participants and the public;
`(B) considerations of the efficiency, competitiveness, and financial
integrity of futures markets;
`(C) considerations of price discovery;
`(D) considerations of sound risk management practices; and
`(E) other public interest considerations.
`(3) APPLICABILITY- This subsection does not apply to the following actions
of the Commission:
`(A) An order that initiates, is part of, or is the result of an adjudicatory
or investigative process of the Commission.
`(B) An emergency action.
`(C) A finding of fact regarding compliance with a requirement of the
Commission.
`(b) ANTITRUST LAWS- The Commission'.
SEC. 120. CONTRACT ENFORCEMENT BETWEEN ELIGIBLE
COUNTERPARTIES.
Section 22(a) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 25(a)) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
`(4) CONTRACT ENFORCEMENT BETWEEN ELIGIBLE COUNTERPARTIES- No
agreement, contract, or transaction between eligible contract participants or
persons reasonably believed to be eligible contract participants, and no
hybrid instrument sold to any investor, shall be void, voidable, or
unenforceable, and no such party shall be entitled to rescind, or recover any
payment made with respect to, such an agreement, contract, transaction, or
instrument under this section or any other provision of Federal or State law,
based solely on the failure of the agreement, contract, transaction, or
instrument to comply with the terms or conditions of an exemption or
exclusion from any provision of this Act or regulations of the Commission.'.
SEC. 121. SPECIAL PROCEDURES TO ENCOURAGE AND FACILITATE
BONA FIDE HEDGING BY AGRICULTURAL PRODUCERS.
The Commodity Exchange Act, as otherwise amended by this Act, is amended by
inserting after section 4o the following:
`SEC. 4p. SPECIAL PROCEDURES TO ENCOURAGE AND FACILITATE
BONA FIDE HEDGING BY AGRICULTURAL PRODUCERS.
`(a) AUTHORITY- The Commission shall consider issuing rules or orders which--
`(1) prescribe procedures under which each contract market is to provide for
orderly delivery, including temporary storage costs, of any agricultural
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 46 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
commodity enumerated in section 1a(4) which is the subject of a contract for
purchase or sale for future delivery;
`(2) increase the ease with which domestic agricultural producers may
participate in contract markets, including by addressing cost and margin
requirements, so as to better enable the producers to hedge price risk
associated with their production;
`(3) provide flexibility in the minimum quantities of such agricultural
commodities that may be the subject of a contract for purchase or sale for
future delivery that is traded on a contract market, to better allow domestic
agricultural producers to hedge such price risk; and
`(4) encourage contract markets to provide information and otherwise
facilitate the participation of domestic agricultural producers in contract
markets.
`(b) REPORT- Within 1 year after the date of the enactment of this section, the
Commission shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the
Senate a report on the steps it has taken to implement this section and on the
activities of contract markets pursuant to this section.'.
SEC. 122. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
Except as expressly provided in this Act or an amendment made by this Act,
nothing in this Act or an amendment made by this Act supersedes, affects, or
otherwise limits or expands the scope and applicability of laws governing the
Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC. 123. TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.
(a) COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT-
(1) Section 1a of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a) (as amended
by section 101) is amended--
(A) in paragraphs (5), (6), (16), (17), (20), and (23), by inserting `or
derivatives transaction execution facility' after `contract market' each
place it appears; and
(B) in paragraph (24)--
(i) in the paragraph heading, by striking `CONTRACT MARKET' and
inserting `REGISTERED ENTITY';
(ii) by striking `contract market' each place it appears and inserting
`registered entity'; and
(iii) by adding at the end the following:
`A participant in an alternative trading system that is designated as a
contract market pursuant to section 5f is deemed a member of the contract
market for purposes of transactions in security futures products through the
contract market.'.
(2) Section 2 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2, 2a, 4, 4a, 3) is
amended--
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 47 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
(A) by striking `SEC. 2. (a)(1)(A)(i) The' and inserting the following:
`SEC. 2. JURISDICTION OF COMMISSION; LIABILITY OF
PRINCIPAL FOR ACT OF AGENT; COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING
COMMISSION; TRANSACTION IN INTERSTATE COMMERCE.
`(a) JURISDICTION OF COMMISSION; COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING
COMMISSION-
`(1) JURISDICTION OF COMMISSION-
`(A) IN GENERAL- The'; and
(B) in subsection (a)(1)--
(i) in subparagraph (A) (as amended by subparagraph (A) of this
paragraph)--
(I) by striking `subparagraph (B) of this subparagraph' and
inserting `subparagraphs (C) and (D) of this paragraph and
subsections (c) through (i) of this section';
(II) by striking `contract market designated pursuant to
section 5 of this Act' and inserting `contract market
designated or derivatives transaction execution facility
registered pursuant to section 5 or 5a';
(III) by striking clause (ii); and
(IV) in clause (iii), by striking `(iii) The' and inserting the
following:
`(B) LIABILITY OF PRINCIPAL FOR ACT OF AGENT- The'; and
(ii) in subparagraph (B)--
(I) by striking `(B)' and inserting `(C)';
(II) in clause (v)--
(aa) by striking `section 3 of the Securities Act of 1933'; and
(bb) by inserting `or subparagraph (D)' after `subparagraph'; and
(III) by moving clauses (i) through (v) 4 ems to the right;
(C) in subsection (a)(7), by striking `contract market' and inserting
`registered entity';
(D) in subsection (a)(8)(B)(ii)--
(i) in the first sentence, by striking `designation as a contract
market' and inserting `designation or registration as a contract
market or derivatives transaction execution facility';
(ii) in the second sentence, by striking `designate a board of trade
as a contract market' and inserting `designate or register a board
of trade as a contract market or derivatives transaction execution
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 48 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
facility'; and
(iii) in the fourth sentence, by striking `designating, or refusing,
suspending, or revoking the designation of, a board of trade as a
contract market involving transactions for future delivery referred
to in this clause or in considering possible emergency action under
section 8a(9) of this Act' and inserting `designating, registering, or
refusing, suspending, or revoking the designation or registration of,
a board of trade as a contract market or derivatives transaction
execution facility involving transactions for future delivery referred
to in this clause or in considering any possible action under this Act
(including without limitation emergency action under section
8a(9))', and by striking `designation, suspension, revocation, or
emergency action' and inserting `designation, registration,
suspension, revocation, or action'; and
(E) in subsection (a), by moving paragraphs (2) through (9) 2 ems to
the right.
(3) Section 4 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6) is amended--
(A) in subsection (a)--
(i) in paragraph (1), by striking `designated by the Commission as
a `contract market' for' and inserting `designated or registered by
the Commission as a contract market or derivatives transaction
execution facility for';
(ii) in paragraph (2), by striking `member of such'; and
(iii) in paragraph (3), by inserting `or derivatives transaction
execution facility' after `contract market'; and
(B) in subsection (c)--
(i) in paragraph (1)--
(I) by striking `designated as a contract market' and inserting
`designated or registered as a contract market or derivatives
transaction execution facility'; and
(II) by striking `section 2(a)(1)(B)' and inserting
`subparagraphs (C)(ii) and (D) of section 2(a)(1), except that
the Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission
may by rule, regulation, or order jointly exclude any
agreement, contract, or transaction from section 2(a)(1)(D)';
and
(ii) in paragraph (2)(B)(ii), by inserting `or derivatives transaction
execution facility' after `contract market'.
(4) Section 4a of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6a) is amended--
(A) in subsection (a)--
(i) in the first sentence, by inserting `or derivatives transaction
execution facilities' after `contract markets'; and
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 49 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
(ii) in the second sentence, by inserting `or derivatives transaction
execution facility' after `contract market';
(B) in subsection (b)--
(i) in paragraph (1), by inserting `, or derivatives transaction
execution facility or facilities,' after `markets'; and
(ii) in paragraph (2), by inserting `or derivatives transaction
execution facility' after `contract market'; and
(C) in subsection (e)--
(i) by striking `contract market or' each place it appears and
inserting `contract market, derivatives transaction execution
facility, or';
(ii) by striking `licensed or designated' each place it appears and
inserting `licensed, designated, or registered'; and
(iii) by striking `contract market, or' and inserting `contract market
or derivatives transaction execution facility, or'.
(5) Section 4b(a) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6b(a)) is
amended by striking `contract market' each place it appears and inserting
`registered entity'.
(6) Sections 4c(g), 4d, 4e, and 4f of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C.
6c(g), 6d, 6e, 6f) are amended by inserting `or derivatives transaction
execution facility' after `contract market' each place it appears.
(7) Section 4g of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6g) is amended--
(A) in subsection (b), by striking `clearinghouse and contract market'
and inserting `registered entity'; and
(B) in subsection (f), by striking `clearinghouses, contract markets, and
exchanges' and inserting `registered entities'.
(8) Section 4h of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6h) is amended by
striking `contract market' each place it appears and inserting `registered
entity'.
(9) Section 4i of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6i) is amended in
the first sentence by inserting `or derivatives transaction execution facility'
after `contract market'.
(10) Section 4l of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6l) is amended by
inserting `or derivatives transaction execution facilities' after `contract
markets' each place it appears.
(11) Section 4p of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6p) is amended--
(A) in the third sentence of subsection (a), by striking `Act or contract
markets' and inserting `Act, contract markets, or derivatives transaction
execution facilities'; and
(B) in subsection (b), by inserting `derivatives transaction execution
facility,' after `contract market,'.
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 50 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
(12) Section 6 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 8, 9, 9a, 9b, 13b,
15) is amended--
(A) in subsection (a)--
(i) in the first sentence--
(I) by striking `board of trade desiring to be designated a
`contract market' shall make application to the Commission
for such designation' and inserting `person desiring to be
designated or registered as a contract market or derivatives
transaction execution facility shall make application to the
Commission for the designation or registration';
(II) by striking `above conditions' and inserting `conditions set
forth in this Act'; and
(III) by striking `above requirements' and inserting `the
requirements of this Act';
(ii) in the second sentence, by striking `designation as a contract
market within one year' and inserting `designation or registration
as a contract market or derivatives transaction execution facility
within 180 days';
(iii) in the third sentence--
(I) by striking `board of trade' and inserting `person'; and
(II) by striking `one-year period' and inserting `180-day
period'; and
(iv) in the last sentence, by striking `designate as a `contract
market' any board of trade that has made application therefor,
such board of trade' and inserting `designate or register as a
contract market or derivatives transaction execution facility any
person that has made application therefor, the person';
(B) in subsection (b)--
(i) in the first sentence--
(I) by striking `designation of any board of trade as a
`contract market' upon' and inserting `designation or
registration of any contract market or derivatives transaction
execution facility on';
(II) by striking `board of trade' each place it appears and
inserting `contract market or derivatives transaction execution
facility'; and
(III) by striking `designation as set forth in section 5 of this
Act' and inserting `designation or registration as set forth in
sections 5 through 5b or section 5f';
(ii) in the second sentence--
(I) by striking `board of trade' the first place it appears and
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 51 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
inserting `contract market or derivatives transaction execution
facility'; and
(II) by striking `board of trade' the second and third places it
appears and inserting `person'; and
(iii) in the last sentence, by striking `board of trade' each place it
appears and inserting `person';
(C) in subsection (c)--
(i) by striking `contract market' each place it appears and inserting
`registered entity';
(ii) by striking `contract markets' each place it appears and
inserting `registered entities'; and
(iii) by striking `trading privileges' each place it appears and
inserting `privileges';
(D) in subsection (d), by striking `contract market' each place it appears
and inserting `registered entity'; and
(E) in subsection (e), by striking `trading on all contract markets' each
place it appears and inserting `the privileges of all registered entities'.
(13) Section 6a of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 10a) is amended--
(A) in the first sentence of subsection (a), by striking `designated as a
`contract market' shall' and inserting `designated or registered as a
contract market or a derivatives transaction execution facility'; and
(B) in subsection (b), by striking `designated as a contract market' and
inserting `designated or registered as a contract market or a derivatives
transaction execution facility'.
(14) Section 6b of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 13a) is amended--
(A) by striking `contract market' each place it appears and inserting
`registered entity';
(B) in the first sentence, by striking `designation as set forth in section
5 of this Act' and inserting `designation or registration as set forth in
sections 5 through 5c'; and
(C) in the last sentence, by striking `the contract market's ability' and
inserting `the ability of the registered entity'.
(15) Section 6c(a) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 13a-1(a)) by
striking `contract market' and inserting `registered entity'.
(16) Section 6d(1) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 13a-2(1)) is
amended by inserting `derivatives transaction execution facility,' after
`contract market,'.
(17) Section 7 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 11) is amended--
(A) in the first sentence--
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 52 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
(i) by striking `board of trade' and inserting `person';
(ii) by inserting `or registered' after `designated';
(iii) by inserting `or registration' after `designation' each place it
appears; and
(iv) by striking `contract market' each place it appears and
inserting `registered entity';
(B) in the second sentence--
(i) by striking `designation of such board of trade as a contract
market' and inserting `designation or registration of the registered
entity'; and
(ii) by striking `contract markets' and inserting `registered
entities'; and
(C) in the last sentence--
(i) by striking `board of trade' and inserting `person'; and
(ii) by striking `designated again a contract market' and inserting
`designated or registered again a registered entity'.
(18) Section 8(c) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 12(c)) is
amended in the first sentence by striking `board of trade' and inserting
`registered entity'.
(19) Section 8a of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 12a) is amended--
(A) by striking `contract market' each place it appears and inserting
`registered entity'; and
(B) in paragraph (2)(F), by striking `trading privileges' and inserting
`privileges'.
(20) Sections 8b and 8c(e) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 12b,
12c(e)) are amended by striking `contract market' each place it appears and
inserting `registered entity'.
(21) Section 8e of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 12e) is repealed.
(22) Section 9 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 13) is amended by
striking `contract market' each place it appears and inserting `registered
entity'.
(23) Section 14 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 18) is amended--
(A) in subsection (a)(1)(B), by striking `contract market' and inserting
`registered entity'; and
(B) in subsection (f), by striking `contract markets' and inserting
`registered entities'.
(24) Section 17 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 21) is amended by
striking `contract market' each place it appears and inserting `registered
entity'.
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 53 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
(25) Section 22 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 25) is amended--
(A) in subsection (a)--
(i) in paragraph (1)--
(I) by striking `contract market, clearing organization of a
contract market, licensed board of trade,' and inserting
`registered entity'; and
(II) in subparagraph (C)(i), by striking `contract market' and
inserting `registered entity';
(ii) in paragraph (2), by striking `sections 5a(11),' and inserting
`sections 5(d)(13), 5b(b)(1)(E),'; and
(iii) in paragraph (3), by striking `contract market' and inserting
`registered entity'; and
(B) in subsection (b)--
(i) in paragraph (1)--
(I) by striking `contract market or clearing organization of a
contract market' and inserting `registered entity';
(II) by striking `section 5a(8) and section 5a(9) of this Act'
and inserting `sections 5 through 5c';
(III) by striking `contract market, clearing organization of a
contract market, or licensed board of trade' and inserting
`registered entity'; and
(IV) by striking `contract market or licensed board of trade'
and inserting `registered entity';
(ii) in paragraph (3)--
(I) by striking `a contract market, clearing organization,
licensed board of trade,' and inserting `registered entity'; and
(II) by striking `contract market, licensed board of trade' and
inserting `registered entity';
(iii) in paragraph (4), by striking `contract market, licensed board
of trade, clearing organization,' and inserting `registered entity';
and
(iv) in paragraph (5), by striking `contract market, licensed board
of trade, clearing organization,' and inserting `registered entity'.
(b) FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 1991-
Section 402(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of
1991 (12 U.S.C. 4402(2)) is amended by striking subparagraph (B) and inserting
the following:
`(B) that is registered as a derivatives clearing organization under
section 5b of the Commodity Exchange Act.'.
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 54 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
SEC. 124. PRIVACY.
The Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.) is amended by inserting after
section 5f (as added by section 252) the following:
`SEC. 5g. PRIVACY.
`(a) TREATMENT AS FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS- Notwithstanding section
509(3)(B) of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, any futures commission merchant,
commodity trading advisor, commodity pool operator, or introducing broker that
is subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission under this Act with respect to any
financial activity shall be treated as a financial institution for purposes of title V of
such Act with respect to such financial activity.
`(b) TREATMENT OF CFTC AS FEDERAL FUNCTIONAL REGULATOR- For purposes
of title V of such Act, the Commission shall be treated as a Federal functional
regulator within the meaning of section 509(2) of such Act and shall prescribe
regulations under such title within 6 months after the date of the enactment of
this section.'.
SEC. 125. REPORT TO CONGRESS.
(a) The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (in this section referred to as the
`Commission') shall undertake and complete a study of the Commodity Exchange
Act (in this section referred to as `the Act') and the Commission's rules,
regulations and orders governing the conduct of persons required to be registered
under the Act, not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act.
The study shall identify--
(1) the core principles and interpretations of acceptable business practices
that the Commission has adopted or intends to adopt to replace the
provisions of the Act and the Commission's rules and regulations thereunder;
(2) the rules and regulations that the Commission has determined must be
retained and the reasons therefor;
(3) the extent to which the Commission believes it can effect the changes
identified in paragraph (1) of this subsection through its exemptive authority
under section 4(c) of the Act; and
(4) the regulatory functions the Commission currently performs that can be
delegated to a registered futures association (within the meaning of the Act)
and the regulatory functions that the Commission has determined must be
retained and the reasons therefor.
(b) In conducting the study, the Commission shall solicit the views of the public as
well as Commission registrants, registered entities, and registered futures
associations (all within the meaning of the Act).
(c) The Commission shall transmit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House
of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of
the Senate a report of the results of its study, which shall include an analysis of
comments received.
SEC. 126. INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMODITY
FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION.
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 55 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
(a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
(1) derivatives markets serving United States industry are increasingly global
in scope;
(2) developments in data processing and communications technologies
enable users of risk management services to analyze and compare those
services on a worldwide basis;
(3) financial services regulatory policy must be flexible to account for rapidly
changing derivatives industry business practices;
(4) regulatory impediments to the operation of global business interests can
compromise the competitiveness of United States businesses;
(5) events that disrupt financial markets and economies are often global in
scope, require rapid regulatory response, and coordinated regulatory effort
across international jurisdictions;
(6) through its membership in the International Organisation of Securities
Commissions, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission has promoted
beneficial communication among market regulators and international
regulatory cooperation; and
(7) the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and other United States
financial regulators and self-regulatory organizations should continue to
foster productive and cooperative working relationships with their
counterparts in foreign jurisdictions.
(b) SENSE OF THE CONGRESS- It is the sense of the Congress that, consistent
with its responsibilities under the Commodity Exchange Act, the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission should, as part of its international activities, continue
to coordinate with foreign regulatory authorities, to participate in international
regulatory organizations and forums, and to provide technical assistance to
foreign government authorities, in order to encourage--
(1) the facilitation of cross-border transactions through the removal or
lessening of any unnecessary legal or practical obstacles;
(2) the development of internationally accepted regulatory standards of best
practice;
(3) the enhancement of international supervisory cooperation and emergency
procedures;
(4) the strengthening of international cooperation for customer and market
protection; and
(5) improvements in the quality and timeliness of international information
sharing.
TITLE II--COORDINATED REGULATION OF SECURITY FUTURES PRODUCTS
Subtitle A--Securities Law Amendments
SEC. 201. DEFINITIONS UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934.
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 56 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
Section 3(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)) is
amended--
(1) in paragraph (10), by inserting `security future,' after `treasury stock,';
(2) by striking paragraph (11) and inserting the following:
`(11) The term `equity security' means any stock or similar security; or any
security future on any such security; or any security convertible, with or
without consideration, into such a security, or carrying any warrant or right
to subscribe to or purchase such a security; or any such warrant or right; or
any other security which the Commission shall deem to be of similar nature
and consider necessary or appropriate, by such rules and regulations as it
may prescribe in the public interest or for the protection of investors, to treat
as an equity security.';
(3) in paragraph (13), by adding at the end the following: `For security
futures products, such term includes any contract, agreement, or transaction
for future delivery.';
(4) in paragraph (14), by adding at the end the following: `For security
futures products, such term includes any contract, agreement, or transaction
for future delivery.'; and
(5) by adding at the end the following:
`(55)(A) The term `security future' means a contract of sale for future
delivery of a single security or of a narrow-based security index, including
any interest therein or based on the value thereof, except an exempted
security under section 3(a)(12) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as in
effect on the date of the enactment of the Futures Trading Act of 1982 (other
than any municipal security as defined in section 3(a)(29) as in effect on the
date of the enactment of the Futures Trading Act of 1982). The term
`security future' does not include any agreement, contract, or transaction
excluded from the Commodity Exchange Act under section 2(c), 2(d), 2(f), or
2(g) of the Commodity Exchange Act (as in effect on the date of the
enactment of the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000) or title IV of
the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000.
`(B) The term `narrow-based security index' means an index--
`(i) that has 9 or fewer component securities;
`(ii) in which a component security comprises more than 30 percent of
the index's weighting;
`(iii) in which the five highest weighted component securities in the
aggregate comprise more than 60 percent of the index's weighting; or
`(iv) in which the lowest weighted component securities comprising, in
the aggregate, 25 percent of the index's weighting have an aggregate
dollar value of average daily trading volume of less than $50,000,000
(or in the case of an index with 15 or more component securities,
$30,000,000), except that if there are two or more securities with equal
weighting that could be included in the calculation of the lowest
weighted component securities comprising, in the aggregate, 25 percent
of the index's weighting, such securities shall be ranked from lowest to
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 57 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
highest dollar value of average daily trading volume and shall be
included in the calculation based on their ranking starting with the
lowest ranked security.
`(C) Notwithstanding subparagraph (B), an index is not a narrow-based
security index if--
`(i)(I) it has at least nine component securities;
`(II) no component security comprises more than 30 percent of the
index's weighting; and
`(III) each component security is--
`(aa) registered pursuant to section 12 of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934;
`(bb) one of 750 securities with the largest market capitalization;
and
`(cc) one of 675 securities with the largest dollar value of average
daily trading volume;
`(ii) a board of trade was designated as a contract market by the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission with respect to a contract of
sale for future delivery on the index, before the date of the enactment
of the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000;
`(iii)(I) a contract of sale for future delivery on the index traded on a
designated contract market or registered derivatives transaction
execution facility for at least 30 days as a contract of sale for future
delivery on an index that was not a narrow-based security index; and
`(II) it has been a narrow-based security index for no more than 45
business days over 3 consecutive calendar months;
`(iv) a contract of sale for future delivery on the index is traded on or
subject to the rules of a foreign board of trade and meets such
requirements as are jointly established by rule or regulation by the
Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission;
`(v) no more than 18 months have passed since the date of the
enactment of the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000 and--
`(I) it is traded on or subject to the rules of a foreign board of
trade;
`(II) the offer and sale in the United States of a contract of sale for
future delivery on the index was authorized before the date of the
enactment of the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000;
and
`(III) the conditions of such authorization continue to be met; or
`(vi) a contract of sale for future delivery on the index is traded on or
subject to the rules of a board of trade and meets such requirements as
are jointly established by rule, regulation, or order by the Commission
and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 58 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`(D) Within 1 year after the enactment of the Commodity Futures
Modernization Act of 2000, the Commission and the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission jointly shall adopt rules or regulations that set forth the
requirements under clause (iv) of subparagraph (C).
`(E) An index that is a narrow-based security index solely because it was a
narrow-based security index for more than 45 business days over 3
consecutive calendar months pursuant to clause (iii) of subparagraph (C)
shall not be a narrow-based security index for the 3 following calendar
months.
`(F) For purposes of subparagraphs (B) and (C) of this paragraph--
`(i) the dollar value of average daily trading volume and the market
capitalization shall be calculated as of the preceding 6 full calendar
months; and
`(ii) the Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
shall, by rule or regulation, jointly specify the method to be used to
determine market capitalization and dollar value of average daily trading
volume.
`(56) The term `security futures product' means a security future or any
put, call, straddle, option, or privilege on any security future.
`(57)(A) The term `margin', when used with respect to a security futures
product, means the amount, type, and form of collateral required to secure
any extension or maintenance of credit, or the amount, type, and form of
collateral required as a performance bond related to the purchase, sale, or
carrying of a security futures product.
`(B) The terms `margin level' and `level of margin', when used with respect
to a security futures product, mean the amount of margin required to secure
any extension or maintenance of credit, or the amount of margin required as
a performance bond related to the purchase, sale, or carrying of a security
futures product.
`(C) The terms `higher margin level' and `higher level of margin', when
used with respect to a security futures product, mean a margin level
established by a national securities exchange registered pursuant to section
6(g) that is higher than the minimum amount established and in effect
pursuant to section 7(c)(2)(B).'.
SEC. 202. REGULATORY RELIEF FOR MARKETS TRADING SECURITY
FUTURES PRODUCTS.
(a) EXPEDITED REGISTRATION AND EXEMPTION- Section 6 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78f) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
`(g) NOTICE REGISTRATION OF SECURITY FUTURES PRODUCT EXCHANGES-
`(1) REGISTRATION REQUIRED- An exchange that lists or trades security
futures products may register as a national securities exchange solely for the
purposes of trading security futures products if--
`(A) the exchange is a board of trade, as that term is defined by the
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 59 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(2)), that--
`(i) has been designated a contract market by the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission and such designation is not suspended
by order of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission; or
`(ii) is registered as a derivative transaction execution facility
under section 5a of the Commodity Exchange Act and such
registration is not suspended by the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission; and
`(B) such exchange does not serve as a market place for transactions in
securities other than--
`(i) security futures products; or
`(ii) futures on exempted securities or groups or indexes of
securities or options thereon that have been authorized under
section 2(a)(1)(C) of the Commodity Exchange Act.
`(2) REGISTRATION BY NOTICE FILING-
`(A) FORM AND CONTENT- An exchange required to register only
because such exchange lists or trades security futures products may
register for purposes of this section by filing with the Commission a
written notice in such form as the Commission, by rule, may prescribe
containing the rules of the exchange and such other information and
documents concerning such exchange, comparable to the information
and documents required for national securities exchanges under section
6(a), as the Commission, by rule, may prescribe as necessary or
appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors. If
such exchange has filed documents with the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, to the extent that such documents contain information
satisfying the Commission's informational requirements, copies of such
documents may be filed with the Commission in lieu of the required
written notice.
`(B) IMMEDIATE EFFECTIVENESS- Such registration shall be effective
contemporaneously with the submission of notice, in written or
electronic form, to the Commission, except that such registration shall
not be effective if such registration would be subject to suspension or
revocation.
`(C) TERMINATION- Such registration shall be terminated immediately if
any of the conditions for registration set forth in this subsection are no
longer satisfied.
`(3) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY- The Commission shall promptly publish in the
Federal Register an acknowledgment of receipt of all notices the Commission
receives under this subsection and shall make all such notices available to
the public.
`(4) EXEMPTION OF EXCHANGES FROM SPECIFIED PROVISIONS-
`(A) TRANSACTION EXEMPTIONS- An exchange that is registered under
paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be exempt from, and shall not be
required to enforce compliance by its members with, and its members
shall not, solely with respect to those transactions effected on such
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 60 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
exchange in security futures products, be required to comply with, the
following provisions of this title and the rules thereunder:
`(i) Subsections (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(4), (b)(7), (b)(9), (c), (d), and
(e) of this section.
`(ii) Section 8.
`(iii) Section 11.
`(iv) Subsections (d), (f), and (k) of section 17.
`(v) Subsections (a), (f), and (h) of section 19.
`(B) RULE CHANGE EXEMPTIONS- An exchange that registered under
paragraph (1) of this subsection shall also be exempt from submitting
proposed rule changes pursuant to section 19(b) of this title, except
that--
`(i) such exchange shall file proposed rule changes related to
higher margin levels, fraud or manipulation, recordkeeping,
reporting, listing standards, or decimal pricing for security futures
products, sales practices for security futures products for persons
who effect transactions in security futures products, or rules
effectuating such exchange's obligation to enforce the securities
laws pursuant to section 19(b)(7);
`(ii) such exchange shall file pursuant to sections 19(b)(1) and
19(b)(2) proposed rule changes related to margin, except for
changes resulting in higher margin levels; and
`(iii) such exchange shall file pursuant to section 19(b)(1) proposed
rule changes that have been abrogated by the Commission
pursuant to section 19(b)(7)(C).
`(5) TRADING IN SECURITY FUTURES PRODUCTS-
`(A) IN GENERAL- Subject to subparagraph (B), it shall be unlawful for
any person to execute or trade a security futures product until the later
of--
`(i) 1 year after the date of the enactment of the Commodity
Futures Modernization Act of 2000; or
`(ii) such date that a futures association registered under section
17 of the Commodity Exchange Act has met the requirements set
forth in section 15A(k)(2) of this title.
`(B) PRINCIPAL-TO-PRINCIPAL TRANSACTIONS- Notwithstanding
subparagraph (A), a person may execute or trade a security futures
product transaction if--
`(i) the transaction is entered into--
`(I) on a principal-to-principal basis between parties trading
for their own accounts or as described in section 1a(12)(B)(ii)
of the Commodity Exchange Act; and
`(II) only between eligible contract participants (as defined in
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 61 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
subparagraphs (A), (B)(ii), and (C) of such section 1a(12)) at
the time at which the persons enter into the agreement,
contract, or transaction; and
`(ii) the transaction is entered into on or after the later of--
`(I) 8 months after the date of the enactment of the
Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000; or
`(II) such date that a futures association registered under
section 17 of the Commodity Exchange Act has met the
requirements set forth in section 15A(k)(2) of this title.'.
(b) COMMISSION REVIEW OF PROPOSED RULE CHANGES-
(1) EXPEDITED REVIEW- Section 19(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (15 U.S.C. 78s(b)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
`(7) SECURITY FUTURES PRODUCT RULE CHANGES-
`(A) FILING REQUIRED- A self-regulatory organization that is an
exchange registered with the Commission pursuant to section 6(g) of
this title or that is a national securities association registered pursuant
to section 15A(k) of this title shall file with the Commission, in
accordance with such rules as the Commission may prescribe, copies of
any proposed rule change or any proposed change in, addition to, or
deletion from the rules of such self-regulatory organization (hereinafter
in this paragraph collectively referred to as a `proposed rule change')
that relates to higher margin levels, fraud or manipulation,
recordkeeping, reporting, listing standards, or decimal pricing for
security futures products, sales practices for security futures products
for persons who effect transactions in security futures products, or rules
effectuating such self-regulatory organization's obligation to enforce the
securities laws. Such proposed rule change shall be accompanied by a
concise general statement of the basis and purpose of such proposed
rule change. The Commission shall, upon the filing of any proposed rule
change, promptly publish notice thereof together with the terms of
substance of the proposed rule change or a description of the subjects
and issues involved. The Commission shall give interested persons an
opportunity to submit data, views, and arguments concerning such
proposed rule change.
`(B) FILING WITH CFTC- A proposed rule change filed with the
Commission pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall be filed concurrently
with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Such proposed rule
change may take effect upon filing of a written certification with the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission under section 5c(c) of the
Commodity Exchange Act, upon a determination by the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission that review of the proposed rule change is
not necessary, or upon approval of the proposed rule change by the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
`(C) ABROGATION OF RULE CHANGES- Any proposed rule change of a
self-regulatory organization that has taken effect pursuant to
subparagraph (B) may be enforced by such self-regulatory organization
to the extent such rule is not inconsistent with the provisions of this
title, the rules and regulations thereunder, and applicable Federal law.
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 62 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
At any time within 60 days of the date of the filing of a written
certification with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under
section 5c(c) of the Commodity Exchange Act, the date the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission determines that review of such proposed
rule change is not necessary, or the date the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission approves such proposed rule change, the
Commission, after consultation with the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, may summarily abrogate the proposed rule change and
require that the proposed rule change be refiled in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph (1), if it appears to the Commission that such
proposed rule change unduly burdens competition or efficiency, conflicts
with the securities laws, or is inconsistent with the public interest and
the protection of investors. Commission action pursuant to the preceding
sentence shall not affect the validity or force of the rule change during
the period it was in effect and shall not be reviewable under section 25
of this title nor deemed to be a final agency action for purposes of
section 704 of title 5, United States Code.
`(D) REVIEW OF RESUBMITTED ABROGATED RULES-
`(i) PROCEEDINGS- Within 35 days of the date of publication of
notice of the filing of a proposed rule change that is abrogated in
accordance with subparagraph (C) and refiled in accordance with
paragraph (1), or within such longer period as the Commission may
designate up to 90 days after such date if the Commission finds
such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for
so finding or as to which the self-regulatory organization consents,
the Commission shall--
`(I) by order approve such proposed rule change; or
`(II) after consultation with the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, institute proceedings to determine whether the
proposed rule change should be disapproved. Proceedings
under subclause (II) shall include notice of the grounds for
disapproval under consideration and opportunity for hearing
and be concluded within 180 days after the date of publication
of notice of the filing of the proposed rule change. At the
conclusion of such proceedings, the Commission, by order,
shall approve or disapprove such proposed rule change. The
Commission may extend the time for conclusion of such
proceedings for up to 60 days if the Commission finds good
cause for such extension and publishes its reasons for so
finding or for such longer period as to which the self-
regulatory organization consents.
`(ii) GROUNDS FOR APPROVAL- The Commission shall approve a
proposed rule change of a self-regulatory organization under this
subparagraph if the Commission finds that such proposed rule
change does not unduly burden competition or efficiency, does not
conflict with the securities laws, and is not inconsistent with the
public interest or the protection of investors. The Commission shall
disapprove such a proposed rule change of a self-regulatory
organization if it does not make such finding. The Commission shall
not approve any proposed rule change prior to the 30th day after
the date of publication of notice of the filing thereof, unless the
Commission finds good cause for so doing and publishes its
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 63 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
reasons for so finding.'.
(2) DECIMAL PRICING PROVISIONS- Section 19(b) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78s(b)) is amended by inserting after
paragraph (7), as added by paragraph (1), the following:
`(8) DECIMAL PRICING- Not later than 9 months after the date on which
trading in any security futures product commences under this title, all self-
regulatory organizations listing or trading security futures products shall file
proposed rule changes necessary to implement decimal pricing of security
futures products. The Commission may not require such rules to contain
equal minimum increments in such decimal pricing.'.
(3) CONSULTATION PROVISIONS- Section 19(b) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78s(b)) is amended by inserting after paragraph (8),
as added by paragraph (2), the following:
`(9) CONSULTATION WITH CFTC-
`(A) CONSULTATION REQUIRED- The Commission shall consult with and
consider the views of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission prior
to approving or disapproving a proposed rule change filed by a national
securities association registered pursuant to section 15A(a) or a national
securities exchange subject to the provisions of subsection (a) that
primarily concerns conduct related to transactions in security futures
products, except where the Commission determines that an emergency
exists requiring expeditious or summary action and publishes its reasons
therefor.
`(B) RESPONSES TO CFTC COMMENTS AND FINDINGS- If the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission comments in writing to the
Commission on a proposed rule that has been published for comment,
the Commission shall respond in writing to such written comment before
approving or disapproving the proposed rule. If the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission determines, and notifies the Commission, that such
rule, if implemented or as applied, would--
`(i) adversely affect the liquidity or efficiency of the market for
security futures products; or
`(ii) impose any burden on competition not necessary or
appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of this section,
the Commission shall, prior to approving or disapproving the proposed
rule, find that such rule is necessary and appropriate in furtherance of
the purposes of this section notwithstanding the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission's determination.'.
(c) REVIEW OF DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS- Section 19(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78s(d)) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
`(3) The provisions of this subsection shall apply to an exchange registered
pursuant to section 6(g) of this title or a national securities association registered
pursuant to section 15A(k) of this title only to the extent that such exchange or
association imposes any final disciplinary sanction for--
`(A) a violation of the Federal securities laws or the rules and regulations
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 64 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
thereunder; or
`(B) a violation of a rule of such exchange or association, as to which a
proposed change would be required to be filed under section 19 of this title,
except that, to the extent that the exchange or association rule violation
relates to any account, agreement, contract, or transaction, this subsection
shall apply only to the extent such violation involves a security futures
product.'.
SEC. 203. REGULATORY RELIEF FOR INTERMEDIARIES TRADING
SECURITY FUTURES PRODUCTS.
(a) EXPEDITED REGISTRATION AND EXEMPTIONS-
(1) AMENDMENT- Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15
U.S.C. 78o(b)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
`(11) BROKER/DEALER REGISTRATION WITH RESPECT TO TRANSACTIONS
IN SECURITY FUTURES PRODUCTS-
`(A) NOTICE REGISTRATION-
`(i) CONTENTS OF NOTICE- Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and
(2), a broker or dealer required to register only because it effects
transactions in security futures products on an exchange registered
pursuant to section 6(g) may register for purposes of this section
by filing with the Commission a written notice in such form and
containing such information concerning such broker or dealer and
any persons associated with such broker or dealer as the
Commission, by rule, may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in
the public interest or for the protection of investors. A broker or
dealer may not register under this paragraph unless that broker or
dealer is a member of a national securities association registered
under section 15A(k).
`(ii) IMMEDIATE EFFECTIVENESS- Such registration shall be
effective contemporaneously with the submission of notice, in
written or electronic form, to the Commission, except that such
registration shall not be effective if the registration would be
subject to suspension or revocation under paragraph (4).
`(iii) SUSPENSION- Such registration shall be suspended
immediately if a national securities association registered pursuant
to section 15A(k) of this title suspends the membership of that
broker or dealer.
`(iv) TERMINATION- Such registration shall be terminated
immediately if any of the above stated conditions for registration
set forth in this paragraph are no longer satisfied.
`(B) EXEMPTIONS FOR REGISTERED BROKERS AND DEALERS- A broker
or dealer registered pursuant to the requirements of subparagraph (A)
shall be exempt from the following provisions of this title and the rules
thereunder with respect to transactions in security futures products:
`(i) Section 8.
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 65 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`(ii) Section 11.
`(iii) Subsections (c)(3) and (c)(5) of this section.
`(iv) Section 15B.
`(v) Section 15C.
`(vi) Subsections (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) of section 17.'.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 28(e) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78bb(e)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
`(4) The provisions of this subsection shall not apply with regard to securities
that are security futures products.'.
(b) FLOOR BROKERS AND FLOOR TRADERS- Section 15(b) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)) is amended by inserting after paragraph
(11), as added by subsection (a), the following:
`(12) EXEMPTION FOR SECURITY FUTURES PRODUCT EXCHANGE MEMBERS-
`(A) REGISTRATION EXEMPTION- A natural person shall be exempt from
the registration requirements of this section if such person--
`(i) is a member of a designated contract market registered with
the Commission as an exchange pursuant to section 6(g);
`(ii) effects transactions only in securities on the exchange of
which such person is a member; and
`(iii) does not directly accept or solicit orders from public
customers or provide advice to public customers in connection with
the trading of security futures products.
`(B) OTHER EXEMPTIONS- A natural person exempt from registration
pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall also be exempt from the following
provisions of this title and the rules thereunder:
`(i) Section 8.
`(ii) Section 11.
`(iii) Subsections (c)(3), (c)(5), and (e) of this section.
`(iv) Section 15B.
`(v) Section 15C.
`(vi) Subsections (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) of section 17.'.
(c) LIMITED PURPOSE NATIONAL SECURITIES ASSOCIATION- Section 15A of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-3) is amended by adding at the
end the following:
`(k) LIMITED PURPOSE NATIONAL SECURITIES ASSOCIATION-
`(1) REGULATION OF MEMBERS WITH RESPECT TO SECURITY FUTURES
PRODUCTS- A futures association registered under section 17 of the
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 66 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
Commodity Exchange Act shall be a registered national securities association
for the limited purpose of regulating the activities of members who are
registered as brokers or dealers in security futures products pursuant to
section 15(b)(11).
`(2) REQUIREMENTS FOR REGISTRATION- Such a securities association
shall--
`(A) be so organized and have the capacity to carry out the purposes of
the securities laws applicable to security futures products and to
comply, and (subject to any rule or order of the Commission pursuant
to section 19(g)(2)) to enforce compliance by its members and persons
associated with its members, with the provisions of the securities laws
applicable to security futures products, the rules and regulations
thereunder, and its rules;
`(B) have rules that--
`(i) are designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and
practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, and, in
general, to protect investors and the public interest, including rules
governing sales practices and the advertising of security futures
products reasonably comparable to those of other national
securities associations registered pursuant to subsection (a) that
are applicable to security futures products; and
`(ii) are not designed to regulate by virtue of any authority
conferred by this title matters not related to the purposes of this
title or the administration of the association;
`(C) have rules that provide that (subject to any rule or order of the
Commission pursuant to section 19(g)(2)) its members and persons
associated with its members shall be appropriately disciplined for
violation of any provision of the securities laws applicable to security
futures products, the rules or regulations thereunder, or the rules of the
association, by expulsion, suspension, limitation of activities, functions,
and operations, fine, censure, being suspended or barred from being
associated with a member, or any other fitting sanction; and
`(D) have rules that ensure that members and natural persons
associated with members meet such standards of training, experience,
and competence necessary to effect transactions in security futures
products and are tested for their knowledge of securities and security
futures products.
`(3) EXEMPTION FROM RULE CHANGE SUBMISSION- Such a securities
association shall be exempt from submitting proposed rule changes pursuant
to section 19(b) of this title, except that--
`(A) the association shall file proposed rule changes related to higher
margin levels, fraud or manipulation, recordkeeping, reporting, listing
standards, or decimal pricing for security futures products, sales
practices for, advertising of, or standards of training, experience,
competence, or other qualifications for security futures products for
persons who effect transactions in security futures products, or rules
effectuating the association's obligation to enforce the securities laws
pursuant to section 19(b)(7);
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 67 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`(B) the association shall file pursuant to sections 19(b)(1) and 19(b)(2)
proposed rule changes related to margin, except for changes resulting
in higher margin levels; and
`(C) the association shall file pursuant to section 19(b)(1) proposed rule
changes that have been abrogated by the Commission pursuant to
section 19(b)(7)(C).
`(4) OTHER EXEMPTIONS- Such a securities association shall be exempt from
and shall not be required to enforce compliance by its members, and its
members shall not, solely with respect to their transactions effected in
security futures products, be required to comply, with the following
provisions of this title and the rules thereunder:
`(A) Section 8.
`(B) Subsections (b)(1), (b)(3), (b)(4), (b)(5), (b)(8), (b)(10), (b)(11),
(b)(12), (b)(13), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) of this section.
`(C) Subsections (d), (f), and (k) of section 17.
`(D) Subsections (a), (f), and (h) of section 19.'.
(d) EXEMPTION UNDER THE SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970-
(1) Section 16(14) of the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 (15
U.S.C. 78lll(14)) is amended by inserting `or any security future as that term
is defined in section 3(a)(55)(A) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,'
after `certificate of deposit for a security,'.
(2) Section 3(a)(2)(A) of the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 (15
U.S.C. 78ccc(a)(2)(A)) is amended--
(A) in clause (i), by striking `and' after the semicolon;
(B) in clause (ii), by striking the period and inserting `; and'; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
`(iii) persons who are registered as a broker or dealer pursuant to
section 15(b)(11)(A) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.'.
SEC. 204. SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR INTERAGENCY
COOPERATION.
Section 17(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78q(b)) is
amended--
(1) by striking `(b) All' and inserting the following:
`(b) RECORDS SUBJECT TO EXAMINATION-
`(1) PROCEDURES FOR COOPERATION WITH OTHER AGENCIES- All';
(2) by striking `prior to conducting any such examination of a registered
clearing' and inserting the following: `prior to conducting any such
examination of a--
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 68 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`(A) registered clearing';
(3) by redesignating the last sentence as paragraph (4)(C);
(4) by striking the period at the end of the first sentence and inserting the
following: `; or
`(B) broker or dealer registered pursuant to section 15(b)(11),
exchange registered pursuant to section 6(g), or national securities
association registered pursuant to section 15A(k) gives notice to the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission of such proposed examination
and consults with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
concerning the feasibility and desirability of coordinating such
examination with examinations conducted by the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission in order to avoid unnecessary regulatory duplication
or undue regulatory burdens for such broker or dealer or exchange.';
(5) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
`(2) FURNISHING DATA AND REPORTS TO CFTC- The Commission shall
notify the Commodity Futures Trading Commission of any examination
conducted of any broker or dealer registered pursuant to section 15(b)(11),
exchange registered pursuant to section 6(g), or national securities
association registered pursuant to section 15A(k) and, upon request, furnish
to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission any examination report and
data supplied to, or prepared by, the Commission in connection with such
examination.
`(3) USE OF CFTC REPORTS- Prior to conducting an examination under
paragraph (1), the Commission shall use the reports of examinations, if the
information available therein is sufficient for the purposes of the examination,
of--
`(A) any broker or dealer registered pursuant to section 15(b)(11);
`(B) exchange registered pursuant to section 6(g); or
`(C) national securities association registered pursuant to section
15A(k);
that is made by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, a national
securities association registered pursuant to section 15A(k), or an exchange
registered pursuant to section 6(g).
`(4) RULES OF CONSTRUCTION-
`(A) Notwithstanding any other provision of this subsection, the records
of a broker or dealer registered pursuant to section 15(b)(11), an
exchange registered pursuant to section 6(g), or a national securities
association registered pursuant to section 15A(k) described in this
subparagraph shall not be subject to routine periodic examinations by
the Commission.
`(B) Any recordkeeping rules adopted under this subsection for a broker
or dealer registered pursuant to section 15(b)(11), an exchange
registered pursuant to section 6(g), or a national securities association
registered pursuant to section 15A(k) shall be limited to records with
respect to persons, accounts, agreements, contracts, and transactions
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 69 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
involving security futures products.'; and
(6) in paragraph (4)(C) (as redesignated by paragraph (3) of this section),
by striking `Nothing in the proviso to the preceding sentence' and inserting
`Nothing in the proviso in paragraph (1)'.
SEC. 205. MAINTENANCE OF MARKET INTEGRITY FOR SECURITY
FUTURES PRODUCTS.
(a) ADDITION OF SECURITY FUTURES PRODUCTS TO OPTION-SPECIFIC
ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS-
(1) PROHIBITION AGAINST MANIPULATION- Section 9(b) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78i(b)) is amended--
(A) in paragraph (1)--
(i) by inserting `(A)' after `acquires'; and
(ii) by striking `; or' and inserting `; or (B) any security futures
product on the security; or';
(B) in paragraph (2)--
(i) by inserting `(A)' after `interest in any'; and
(ii) by striking `; or' and inserting `; or (B) such security futures
product; or'; and
(C) in paragraph (3)--
(i) by inserting `(A)' after `interest in any'; and
(ii) by inserting `; or (B) such security futures product' after
`privilege'.
(2) MANIPULATION IN OPTIONS AND OTHER DERIVATIVE PRODUCTS-
Section 9(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78i(g)) is
amended--
(A) by inserting `(1)' after `(g)';
(B) by inserting `other than a security futures product' after `future
delivery'; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
`(2) Notwithstanding the Commodity Exchange Act, the Commission shall have
the authority to regulate the trading of any security futures product to the extent
provided in the securities laws.'.
(3) LIABILITY OF CONTROLLING PERSONS AND PERSONS WHO AID AND
ABET VIOLATIONS- Section 20(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15
U.S.C. 78t(d)) is amended by striking `or privilege' and inserting `, privilege,
or security futures product'.
(4) LIABILITY TO CONTEMPORANEOUS TRADERS FOR INSIDER TRADING-
Section 21A(a)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78u-
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 70 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
1(a)(1)) is amended by striking `standardized options, the Commission--'
and inserting `standardized options or security futures products, the
Commission--'.
(5) ENFORCEMENT CONSULTATION- Section 21 of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78u) is amended by adding at the end the following:
`(i) INFORMATION TO CFTC- The Commission shall provide the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission with notice of the commencement of any proceeding
and a copy of any order entered by the Commission against any broker or dealer
registered pursuant to section 15(b)(11), any exchange registered pursuant to
section 6(g), or any national securities association registered pursuant to section
15A(k).'.
SEC. 206. SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR THE TRADING OF SECURITY
FUTURES PRODUCTS.
(a) LISTING STANDARDS AND CONDITIONS FOR TRADING- Section 6 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78f) is amended by inserting after
subsection (g), as added by section 202, the following:
`(h) TRADING IN SECURITY FUTURES PRODUCTS-
`(1) TRADING ON EXCHANGE OR ASSOCIATION REQUIRED- It shall be
unlawful for any person to effect transactions in security futures products
that are not listed on a national securities exchange or a national securities
association registered pursuant to section 15A(a).
`(2) LISTING STANDARDS REQUIRED- Except as otherwise provided in
paragraph (7), a national securities exchange or a national securities
association registered pursuant to section 15A(a) may trade only security
futures products that (A) conform with listing standards that such exchange
or association files with the Commission under section 19(b) and (B) meet
the criteria specified in section 2(a)(1)(D)(i) of the Commodity Exchange Act.
`(3) REQUIREMENTS FOR LISTING STANDARDS AND CONDITIONS FOR
TRADING- Such listing standards shall--
`(A) except as otherwise provided in a rule, regulation, or order issued
pursuant to paragraph (4), require that any security underlying the
security future, including each component security of a narrow-based
security index, be registered pursuant to section 12 of this title;
`(B) require that if the security futures product is not cash settled, the
market on which the security futures product is traded have
arrangements in place with a registered clearing agency for the payment
and delivery of the securities underlying the security futures product;
`(C) be no less restrictive than comparable listing standards for options
traded on a national securities exchange or national securities
association registered pursuant to section 15A(a) of this title;
`(D) except as otherwise provided in a rule, regulation, or order issued
pursuant to paragraph (4), require that the security future be based
upon common stock and such other equity securities as the Commission
and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission jointly determine
appropriate;
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 71 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`(E) require that the security futures product is cleared by a clearing
agency that has in place provisions for linked and coordinated clearing
with other clearing agencies that clear security futures products, which
permits the security futures product to be purchased on one market and
offset on another market that trades such product;
`(F) require that only a broker or dealer subject to suitability rules
comparable to those of a national securities association registered
pursuant to section 15A(a) effect transactions in the security futures
product;
`(G) require that the security futures product be subject to the
prohibition against dual trading in section 4j of the Commodity Exchange
Act (7 U.S.C. 6j) and the rules and regulations thereunder or the
provisions of section 11(a) of this title and the rules and regulations
thereunder, except to the extent otherwise permitted under this title
and the rules and regulations thereunder;
`(H) require that trading in the security futures product not be readily
susceptible to manipulation of the price of such security futures product,
nor to causing or being used in the manipulation of the price of any
underlying security, option on such security, or option on a group or
index including such securities;
`(I) require that procedures be in place for coordinated surveillance
among the market on which the security futures product is traded, any
market on which any security underlying the security futures product is
traded, and other markets on which any related security is traded to
detect manipulation and insider trading;
`(J) require that the market on which the security futures product is
traded has in place audit trails necessary or appropriate to facilitate the
coordinated surveillance required in subparagraph (I);
`(K) require that the market on which the security futures product is
traded has in place procedures to coordinate trading halts between such
market and any market on which any security underlying the security
futures product is traded and other markets on which any related
security is traded; and
`(L) require that the margin requirements for a security futures product
comply with the regulations prescribed pursuant to section 7(c)(2)(B),
except that nothing in this subparagraph shall be construed to prevent a
national securities exchange or national securities association from
requiring higher margin levels for a security futures product when it
deems such action to be necessary or appropriate.
`(4) AUTHORITY TO MODIFY CERTAIN LISTING STANDARD REQUIREMENTS-
`(A) AUTHORITY TO MODIFY- The Commission and the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, by rule, regulation, or order, may jointly
modify the listing standard requirements specified in subparagraph (A)
or (D) of paragraph (3) to the extent such modification fosters the
development of fair and orderly markets in security futures products, is
necessary or appropriate in the public interest, and is consistent with
the protection of investors.
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 72 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`(B) AUTHORITY TO GRANT EXEMPTIONS- The Commission and the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, by order, may jointly exempt
any person from compliance with the listing standard requirement
specified in subparagraph (E) of paragraph (3) to the extent such
exemption fosters the development of fair and orderly markets in
security futures products, is necessary or appropriate in the public
interest, and is consistent with the protection of investors.
`(5) REQUIREMENTS FOR OTHER PERSONS TRADING SECURITY FUTURE
PRODUCTS- It shall be unlawful for any person (other than a national
securities exchange or a national securities association registered pursuant to
section 15A(a)) to constitute, maintain, or provide a marketplace or facilities
for bringing together purchasers and sellers of security future products or to
otherwise perform with respect to security future products the functions
commonly performed by a stock exchange as that term is generally
understood, unless a national securities association registered pursuant to
section 15A(a) or a national securities exchange of which such person is a
member--
`(A) has in place procedures for coordinated surveillance among such
person, the market trading the securities underlying the security future
products, and other markets trading related securities to detect
manipulation and insider trading;
`(B) has rules to require audit trails necessary or appropriate to
facilitate the coordinated surveillance required in subparagraph (A); and
`(C) has rules to require such person to coordinate trading halts with
markets trading the securities underlying the security future products
and other markets trading related securities.
`(6) DEFERRAL OF OPTIONS ON SECURITY FUTURES TRADING- No person
shall offer to enter into, enter into, or confirm the execution of any put, call,
straddle, option, or privilege on a security future, except that, after 3 years
after the date of the enactment of this subsection, the Commission and the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission may by order jointly determine to
permit trading of puts, calls, straddles, options, or privileges on any security
future authorized to be traded under the provisions of this Act and the
Commodity Exchange Act.
`(7) DEFERRAL OF LINKED AND COORDINATED CLEARING-
`(A) Notwithstanding paragraph (2), until the compliance date, a
national securities exchange or national securities association registered
pursuant to section 15A(a) may trade a security futures product that
does not--
`(i) conform with any listing standard promulgated to meet the
requirement specified in subparagraph (E) of paragraph (3); or
`(ii) meet the criterion specified in section 2(a)(1)(D)(i)(IV) of the
Commodity Exchange Act.
`(B) The Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
shall jointly publish in the Federal Register a notice of the compliance
date no later than 165 days before the compliance date.
`(C) For purposes of this paragraph, the term `compliance date' means
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 73 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
the later of--
`(i) 180 days after the end of the first full calendar month period in
which the average aggregate comparable share volume for all
security futures products based on single equity securities traded
on all national securities exchanges, any national securities
associations registered pursuant to section 15A(a), and all other
persons equals or exceeds 10 percent of the average aggregate
comparable share volume of options on single equity securities
traded on all national securities exchanges and any national
securities associations registered pursuant to section 15A(a); or
`(ii) 2 years after the date on which trading in any security futures
product commences under this title.'.
(b) MARGIN- Section 7 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78g) is
amended--
(1) in subsection (a), by inserting `or a security futures product' after
`exempted security';
(2) in subsection (c)(1)(A), by inserting `except as provided in paragraph
(2),' after `security),';
(3) by redesignating paragraph (2) of subsection (c) as paragraph (3) of
such subsection; and
(4) by inserting after paragraph (1) of such subsection the following:
`(2) MARGIN REGULATIONS-
`(A) COMPLIANCE WITH MARGIN RULES REQUIRED- It shall be unlawful
for any broker, dealer, or member of a national securities exchange to,
directly or indirectly, extend or maintain credit to or for, or collect
margin from any customer on, any security futures product unless such
activities comply with the regulations--
`(i) which the Board shall prescribe pursuant to subparagraph (B);
or
`(ii) if the Board determines to delegate the authority to prescribe
such regulations, which the Commission and the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission shall jointly prescribe pursuant to
subparagraph (B).
If the Board delegates the authority to prescribe such regulations under
clause (ii) and the Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission have not jointly prescribed such regulations within a
reasonable period of time after the date of such delegation, the Board
shall prescribe such regulations pursuant to subparagraph (B).
`(B) CRITERIA FOR ISSUANCE OF RULES- The Board shall prescribe, or,
if the authority is delegated pursuant to subparagraph (A)(ii), the
Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission shall
jointly prescribe, such regulations to establish margin requirements,
including the establishment of levels of margin (initial and maintenance)
for security futures products under such terms, and at such levels, as
the Board deems appropriate, or as the Commission and the Commodity
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 74 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
Futures Trading Commission jointly deem appropriate--
`(i) to preserve the financial integrity of markets trading security
futures products;
`(ii) to prevent systemic risk;
`(iii) to require that--
`(I) the margin requirements for a security future product be
consistent with the margin requirements for comparable option
contracts traded on any exchange registered pursuant to
section 6(a) of this title; and
`(II) initial and maintenance margin levels for a security
future product not be lower than the lowest level of margin,
exclusive of premium, required for any comparable option
contract traded on any exchange registered pursuant to
section 6(a) of this title, other than an option on a security
future;
except that nothing in this subparagraph shall be construed to
prevent a national securities exchange or national securities
association from requiring higher margin levels for a security future
product when it deems such action to be necessary or appropriate;
and
`(iv) to ensure that the margin requirements (other than levels of
margin), including the type, form, and use of collateral for security
futures products, are and remain consistent with the requirements
established by the Board, pursuant to subparagraphs (A) and (B) of
paragraph (1).'.
(c) INCORPORATION OF SECURITY FUTURES PRODUCTS INTO THE NATIONAL
MARKET SYSTEM- Section 11A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C.
78k-1) is amended by adding at the end the following:
`(e) NATIONAL MARKETS SYSTEM FOR SECURITY FUTURES PRODUCTS-
`(1) CONSULTATION AND COOPERATION REQUIRED- With respect to
security futures products, the Commission and the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission shall consult and cooperate so that, to the maximum
extent practicable, their respective regulatory responsibilities may be fulfilled
and the rules and regulations applicable to security futures products may
foster a national market system for security futures products if the
Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission jointly
determine that such a system would be consistent with the congressional
findings in subsection (a)(1). In accordance with this objective, the
Commission shall, at least 15 days prior to the issuance for public comment
of any proposed rule or regulation under this section concerning security
futures products, consult and request the views of the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission.
`(2) APPLICATION OF RULES BY ORDER OF CFTC- No rule adopted pursuant
to this section shall be applied to any person with respect to the trading of
security futures products on an exchange that is registered under section
6(g) unless the Commodity Futures Trading Commission has issued an order
directing that such rule is applicable to such persons.'.
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 75 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
(d) INCORPORATION OF SECURITY FUTURES PRODUCTS INTO THE NATIONAL
SYSTEM FOR CLEARANCE AND SETTLEMENT- Section 17A(b) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
`(7)(A) A clearing agency that is regulated directly or indirectly by the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission through its association with a designated contract
market for security futures products that is a national securities exchange
registered pursuant to section 6(g), and that would be required to register
pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection only because it performs the
functions of a clearing agency with respect to security futures products effected
pursuant to the rules of the designated contract market with which such agency is
associated, is exempted from the provisions of this section and the rules and
regulations thereunder, except that if such a clearing agency performs the
functions of a clearing agency with respect to a security futures product that is
not cash settled, it must have arrangements in place with a registered clearing
agency to effect the payment and delivery of the securities underlying the security
futures product.
`(B) Any clearing agency that performs the functions of a clearing agency with
respect to security futures products must coordinate with and develop fair and
reasonable links with any and all other clearing agencies that perform the
functions of a clearing agency with respect to security futures products, in order
to permit, as of the compliance date (as defined in section 6(h)(6)(C)), security
futures products to be purchased on one market and offset on another market
that trades such products.'.
(e) MARKET EMERGENCY POWERS AND CIRCUIT BREAKERS- Section 12(k) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78l(k)) is amended--
(1) in paragraph (1), by adding at the end the following: `If the actions
described in subparagraph (A) or (B) involve a security futures product, the
Commission shall consult with and consider the views of the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission.'; and
(2) in paragraph (2)(B), by inserting after the first sentence the following: `If
the actions described in subparagraph (A) involve a security futures product,
the Commission shall consult with and consider the views of the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission.'.
(f) TRANSACTION FEES- Section 31 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15
U.S.C. 78ee) is amended--
(1) in subsection (a), by inserting `and assessments' after `fees';
(2) in subsections (b), (c), and (d)(1), by striking `and other evidences of
indebtedness' and inserting `other evidences of indebtedness, and security
futures products';
(3) in subsection (f), by inserting `or assessment' after `fee';
(4) in subsection (g), by inserting `and assessment' after `fee';
(5) by redesignating subsections (e), (f), and (g) as subsections (f), (g), and
(h), respectively; and
(6) by inserting after subsection (d) the following new subsection:
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 76 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`(e) ASSESSMENTS ON SECURITY FUTURES TRANSACTIONS- Each national
securities exchange and national securities association shall pay to the
Commission an assessment equal to $0.02 for each round turn transaction
(treated as including one purchase and one sale of a contract of sale for future
delivery) on a security future traded on such national securities exchange or by or
through any member of such association otherwise than on a national securities
exchange, except that for fiscal year 2007 or any succeeding fiscal year such
assessment shall be equal to $0.0075 for each such transaction. Assessments
collected pursuant to this subsection shall be deposited and collected as general
revenue of the Treasury.'.
(g) EXEMPTION FROM SHORT SALE PROVISIONS- Section 10(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C 78j(a)) is amended--
(1) by inserting `(1)' after `(a)'; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
`(2) Paragraph (1) of this subsection shall not apply to security futures
products.'.
(h) RULEMAKING AUTHORITY TO ADDRESS DUPLICATIVE REGULATION OF DUAL
REGISTRANTS- Section 15(c)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15
U.S.C. 78o(c)(3)) is amended--
(1) by inserting `(A)' after `(3)'; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
`(B) Consistent with this title, the Commission, in consultation with the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, shall issue such rules, regulations, or
orders as are necessary to avoid duplicative or conflicting regulations applicable to
any broker or dealer registered with the Commission pursuant to section 15(b)
(except paragraph (11) thereof), that is also registered with the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission pursuant to section 4f(a) of the Commodity Exchange
Act (except paragraph (2) thereof), with respect to the application of: (i) the
provisions of section 8, section 15(c)(3), and section 17 of this title and the rules
and regulations thereunder related to the treatment of customer funds, securities,
or property, maintenance of books and records, financial reporting, or other
financial responsibility rules, involving security futures products; and (ii) similar
provisions of the Commodity Exchange Act and rules and regulations thereunder
involving security futures products.'.
(i) OBLIGATION TO ADDRESS DUPLICATIVE REGULATION OF DUAL
REGISTRANTS- Section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78f)
is amended by inserting after subsection (h), as added by subsection (a) of this
section, the following:
`(i) Consistent with this title, each national securities exchange registered
pursuant to subsection (a) of this section shall issue such rules as are necessary
to avoid duplicative or conflicting rules applicable to any broker or dealer
registered with the Commission pursuant to section 15(b) (except paragraph (11)
thereof), that is also registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
pursuant to section 4f(a) of the Commodity Exchange Act (except paragraph (2)
thereof), with respect to the application of--
(1) rules of such national securities exchange of the type specified in section
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 77 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
15(c)(3)(B) involving security futures products; and
(2) similar rules of national securities exchanges registered pursuant to
section 6(g) and national securities associations registered pursuant to
section 15A(k) involving security futures products.'.
(j) OBLIGATION TO ADDRESS DUPLICATIVE REGULATION OF DUAL
REGISTRANTS- Section 15A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C.
78o-3) is amended by inserting after subsection (k), as added by section 203, the
following:
`(l) Consistent with this title, each national securities association registered
pursuant to subsection (a) of this section shall issue such rules as are necessary
to avoid duplicative or conflicting rules applicable to any broker or dealer
registered with the Commission pursuant to section 15(b) (except paragraph (11)
thereof), that is also registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
pursuant to section 4f(a) of the Commodity Exchange Act (except paragraph (2)
thereof), with respect to the application of--
`(1) rules of such national securities association of the type specified in
section 15(c)(3)(B) involving security futures products; and
`(2) similar rules of national securities associations registered pursuant to
subsection (k) of this section and national securities exchanges registered
pursuant to section 6(g) involving security futures products.'.
(k) OBLIGATION TO PUT IN PLACE PROCEDURES AND ADOPT RULES-
(1) NATIONAL SECURITIES ASSOCIATIONS- Section 15A of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-3) is amended by inserting after
subsection (l), as added by subsection (j) of this section, the following new
subsection:
`(m) PROCEDURES AND RULES FOR SECURITY FUTURE PRODUCTS- A national
securities association registered pursuant to subsection (a) shall, not later than 8
months after the date of the enactment of the Commodity Futures Modernization
Act of 2000, implement the procedures specified in section 6(h)(5)(A) of this title
and adopt the rules specified in subparagraphs (B) and (C) of section 6(h)(5) of
this title.'.
(2) NATIONAL SECURITIES EXCHANGES- Section 6 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78f) is amended by inserting after
subsection (i), as added by subsection (i) of this section, the following new
subsection:
`(j) PROCEDURES AND RULES FOR SECURITY FUTURE PRODUCTS- A national
securities exchange registered pursuant to subsection (a) shall implement the
procedures specified in section 6(h)(5)(A) of this title and adopt the rules
specified in subparagraphs (B) and (C) of section 6(h)(5) of this title not later
than 8 months after the date of receipt of a request from an alternative trading
system for such implementation and rules.'.
(l) OBLIGATION TO ADDRESS SECURITY FUTURES PRODUCTS TRADED ON
FOREIGN EXCHANGES- Section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15
U.S.C. 78f) is amended by adding after subsection (j), as added by subsection (k)
of this section, the following:
`(k)(1) To the extent necessary or appropriate in the public interest, to promote
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 78 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
fair competition, and consistent with the promotion of market efficiency,
innovation, and expansion of investment opportunities, the protection of investors,
and the maintenance of fair and orderly markets, the Commission and the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission shall jointly issue such rules, regulations,
or orders as are necessary and appropriate to permit the offer and sale of a
security futures product traded on or subject to the rules of a foreign board of
trade to United States persons.
`(2) The rules, regulations, or orders adopted under paragraph (1) shall take into
account, as appropriate, the nature and size of the markets that the securities
underlying the security futures product reflect.'.
SEC. 207. CLEARANCE AND SETTLEMENT.
Section 17A(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)) is
amended--
(1) in paragraph (3)(A), by inserting `and derivative agreements, contracts,
and transactions' after `prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of
securities transactions';
(2) in paragraph (3)(F), by inserting `and, to the extent applicable,
derivative agreements, contracts, and transactions' after `designed to
promote the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities
transactions'; and
(3) by inserting after paragraph (7), as added by section 206(d), the
following:
`(8) A registered clearing agency shall be permitted to provide facilities for the
clearance and settlement of any derivative agreements, contracts, or transactions
that are excluded from the Commodity Exchange Act, subject to the requirements
of this section and to such rules and regulations as the Commission may prescribe
as necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors,
or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of this title.'.
SEC. 208. AMENDMENTS RELATING TO REGISTRATION AND
DISCLOSURE ISSUES UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 AND
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934.
(a) AMENDMENTS TO THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933-
(1) TREATMENT OF SECURITY FUTURES PRODUCTS- Section 2(a) of the
Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77b(a)) is amended--
(A) in paragraph (1), by inserting `security future,' after `treasury
stock,';
(B) in paragraph (3), by adding at the end the following: `Any offer or
sale of a security futures product by or on behalf of the issuer of the
securities underlying the security futures product, an affiliate of the
issuer, or an underwriter, shall constitute a contract for sale of, sale of,
offer for sale, or offer to sell the underlying securities.'; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
`(16) The terms `security future', `narrow-based security index', and
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 79 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`security futures product' have the same meanings as provided in section
3(a)(55) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.'.
(2) EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION- Section 3(a) of the Securities Act of
1933 (15 U.S.C. 77c(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
`(14) Any security futures product that is--
`(A) cleared by a clearing agency registered under section 17A of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or exempt from registration under
subsection (b)(7) of such section 17A; and
`(B) traded on a national securities exchange or a national securities
association registered pursuant to section 15A(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934.'.
(3) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of
1933 (15 U.S.C. 77l(a)(2)) is amended by striking `paragraph (2)' and
inserting `paragraphs (2) and (14)'.
(b) AMENDMENTS TO THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934-
(1) EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION- Section 12(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78l(a)) is amended by adding at the end
the following: `The provisions of this subsection shall not apply in respect of
a security futures product traded on a national securities exchange.'.
(2) EXEMPTIONS FROM REPORTING REQUIREMENT- Section 12(g)(5) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78l(g)(5)) is amended by adding
at the end the following: `For purposes of this subsection, a security futures
product shall not be considered a class of equity security of the issuer of the
securities underlying the security futures product.'.
(3) TRANSACTIONS BY CORPORATE INSIDERS- Section 16 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78p) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
`(f) TREATMENT OF TRANSACTIONS IN SECURITY FUTURES PRODUCTS- The
provisions of this section shall apply to ownership of and transactions in security
futures products.'.
SEC. 209. AMENDMENTS TO THE INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF
1940 AND THE INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940.
(a) DEFINITIONS UNDER THE INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940 AND THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940-
(1) Section 2(a)(36) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C.
80a-2(a)(36)) is amended by inserting `security future,' after `treasury
stock,'.
(2) Section 202(a)(18) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C.
80b-2(a)(18)) is amended by inserting `security future,' after `treasury
stock,'.
(3) Section 2(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-
2(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 80 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`(52) The terms `security future' and `narrow-based security index' have
the same meanings as provided in section 3(a)(55) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934.'.
(4) Section 202(a) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-
2(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
`(27) The terms `security future' and `narrow-based security index' have
the same meanings as provided in section 3(a)(55) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934.'.
(b) OTHER PROVISION- Section 203(b) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940
(15 U.S.C. 80b-3(b)) is amended--
(1) by striking `or' at the end of paragraph (4);
(2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (5) and inserting `; or';
and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
`(6) any investment adviser that is registered with the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission as a commodity trading advisor whose business does
not consist primarily of acting as an investment adviser, as defined in section
202(a)(11) of this title, and that does not act as an investment adviser to--
`(A) an investment company registered under title I of this Act; or
`(B) a company which has elected to be a business development
company pursuant to section 54 of title I of this Act and has not
withdrawn its election.'.
SEC. 210. PREEMPTION OF STATE LAWS.
Section 28(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78bb(a)) is
amended--
(1) in the last sentence--
(A) by inserting `subject to this title' after `privilege, or other security';
and
(B) by striking `any such instrument, if such instrument is traded
pursuant to rules and regulations of a self-regulatory organization that
are filed with the Commission pursuant to section 19(b) of this Act' and
inserting `any such security'; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new sentence: `No provision of State
law regarding the offer, sale, or distribution of securities shall apply to any
transaction in a security futures product, except that this sentence shall not
be construed as limiting any State antifraud law of general applicability.'.
Subtitle B--Amendments to the Commodity Exchange Act
SEC. 251. JURISDICTION OF SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION; OTHER PROVISIONS.
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 81 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
(a) JURISDICTION OF SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION-
(1) Section 2(a)(1)(C) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2a) (as
redesignated by section 34(a)(2)(C)) is amended--
(A) in clause (ii)--
(i) by inserting `or register a derivatives transaction execution
facility that trades or executes,' after `contract market in,';
(ii) by inserting after `contracts) for future delivery' the following:
`, and no derivatives transaction execution facility shall trade or
execute such contracts of sale (or options on such contracts) for
future delivery,';
(iii) by striking `making such application demonstrates and the
Commission expressly finds that the specific contract (or option on
such contract) with respect to which the application has been made
meets' and inserting `or the derivatives transaction execution
facility, and the applicable contract, meet'; and
(iv) by striking subclause (III) of clause (ii) and inserting the
following:
`(III) Such group or index of securities shall not constitute a narrow-
based security index.';
(B) by striking clause (iii);
(C) by striking clause (iv) and inserting the following:
`(iii) If, in its discretion, the Commission determines that a stock index
futures contract, notwithstanding its conformance with the requirements in
clause (ii) of this subparagraph, can reasonably be used as a surrogate for
trading a security (including a security futures product), it may, by order,
require such contract and any option thereon be traded and regulated as
security futures products as defined in section 3(a)(56) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 and section 1a of this Act subject to all rules and
regulations applicable to security futures products under this Act and the
securities laws as defined in section 3(a)(47) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934.'; and
(D) by redesignating clause (v) as clause (iv).
(2) Section 2(a)(1) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2, 2a, 4) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
`(D)(i) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the Securities and
Exchange Commission shall have jurisdiction and authority over security futures
as defined in section 3(a)(55) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, section
2(a)(16) of the Securities Act of 1933, section 2(a)(52) of the Investment
Company Act of 1940, and section 202(a)(27) of the Investment Advisers Act of
1940, options on security futures, and persons effecting transactions in security
futures and options thereon, and this Act shall apply to and the Commission shall
have jurisdiction with respect to accounts, agreements (including any transaction
which is of the character of, or is commonly known to the trade as, an `option',
`privilege', `indemnity', `bid', `offer', `put', `call', `advance guaranty', or
`decline guaranty'), contracts, and transactions involving, and may designate a
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 82 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
board of trade as a contract market in, or register a derivatives transaction
execution facility that trades or executes, a security futures product as defined in
section 1a of this Act: Provided, however, That, except as provided in clause (vi)
of this subparagraph, no board of trade shall be designated as a contract market
with respect to, or registered as a derivatives transaction execution facility for,
any such contracts of sale for future delivery unless the board of trade and the
applicable contract meet the following criteria:
`(I) Except as otherwise provided in a rule, regulation, or order issued
pursuant to clause (v) of this subparagraph, any security underlying the
security future, including each component security of a narrow-based
security index, is registered pursuant to section 12 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934.
`(II) If the security futures product is not cash settled, the board of trade on
which the security futures product is traded has arrangements in place with a
clearing agency registered pursuant to section 17A of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 for the payment and delivery of the securities
underlying the security futures product.
`(III) Except as otherwise provided in a rule, regulation, or order issued
pursuant to clause (v) of this subparagraph, the security future is based
upon common stock and such other equity securities as the Commission and
the Securities and Exchange Commission jointly determine appropriate.
`(IV) The security futures product is cleared by a clearing agency that has in
place provisions for linked and coordinated clearing with other clearing
agencies that clear security futures products, which permits the security
futures product to be purchased on a designated contract market, registered
derivatives transaction execution facility, national securities exchange
registered under section 6(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or
national securities association registered pursuant to section 15A(a) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and offset on another designated contract
market, registered derivatives transaction execution facility, national
securities exchange registered under section 6(a) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, or national securities association registered pursuant to section
15A(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
`(V) Only futures commission merchants, introducing brokers, commodity
trading advisors, commodity pool operators or associated persons subject to
suitability rules comparable to those of a national securities association
registered pursuant to section 15A(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
solicit, accept any order for, or otherwise deal in any transaction in or in
connection with the security futures product.
`(VI) The security futures product is subject to a prohibition against dual
trading in section 4j of this Act and the rules and regulations thereunder or
the provisions of section 11(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and
the rules and regulations thereunder, except to the extent otherwise
permitted under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and
regulations thereunder.
`(VII) Trading in the security futures product is not readily susceptible to
manipulation of the price of such security futures product, nor to causing or
being used in the manipulation of the price of any underlying security, option
on such security, or option on a group or index including such securities;
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 83 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`(VIII) The board of trade on which the security futures product is traded
has procedures in place for coordinated surveillance among such board of
trade, any market on which any security underlying the security futures
product is traded, and other markets on which any related security is traded
to detect manipulation and insider trading, except that, if the board of trade
is an alternative trading system, a national securities association registered
pursuant to section 15A(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or national
securities exchange registered pursuant to section 6(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 of which such alternative trading system is a member
has in place such procedures.
`(IX) The board of trade on which the security futures product is traded has
in place audit trails necessary or appropriate to facilitate the coordinated
surveillance required in subclause (VIII), except that, if the board of trade is
an alternative trading system, a national securities association registered
pursuant to section 15A(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or national
securities exchange registered pursuant to section 6(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 of which such alternative trading system is a member
has rules to require such audit trails.
`(X) The board of trade on which the security futures product is traded has
in place procedures to coordinate trading halts between such board of trade
and markets on which any security underlying the security futures product is
traded and other markets on which any related security is traded, except
that, if the board of trade is an alternative trading system, a national
securities association registered pursuant to section 15A(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 or national securities exchange registered pursuant to
section 6(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 of which such alternative
trading system is a member has rules to require such coordinated trading
halts.
`(XI) The margin requirements for a security futures product comply with the
regulations prescribed pursuant to section 7(c)(2)(B) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, except that nothing in this subclause shall be
construed to prevent a board of trade from requiring higher margin levels for
a security futures product when it deems such action to be necessary or
appropriate.
`(ii) It shall be unlawful for any person to offer, to enter into, to execute, to
confirm the execution of, or to conduct any office or business anywhere in the
United States, its territories or possessions, for the purpose of soliciting, or
accepting any order for, or otherwise dealing in, any transaction in, or in
connection with, a security futures product unless--
`(I) the transaction is conducted on or subject to the rules of a board of
trade that--
`(aa) has been designated by the Commission as a contract market in
such security futures product; or
`(bb) is a registered derivatives transaction execution facility for the
security futures product that has provided a certification with respect to
the security futures product pursuant to clause (vii);
`(II) the contract is executed or consummated by, through, or with a
member of the contract market or registered derivatives transaction
execution facility; and
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 84 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`(III) the security futures product is evidenced by a record in writing which
shows the date, the parties to such security futures product and their
addresses, the property covered, and its price, and each contract market
member or registered derivatives transaction execution facility member shall
keep the record for a period of 3 years from the date of the transaction, or
for a longer period if the Commission so directs, which record shall at all
times be open to the inspection of any duly authorized representative of the
Commission.
`(iii)(I) Except as provided in subclause (II) but notwithstanding any other
provision of this Act, no person shall offer to enter into, enter into, or confirm the
execution of any option on a security future.
`(II) After 3 years after the date of the enactment of the Commodity Futures
Modernization Act of 2000, the Commission and the Securities and Exchange
Commission may by order jointly determine to permit trading of options on any
security future authorized to be traded under the provisions of this Act and the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
`(iv)(I) All relevant records of a futures commission merchant or introducing
broker registered pursuant to section 4f(a)(2), floor broker or floor trader exempt
from registration pursuant to section 4f(a)(3), associated person exempt from
registration pursuant to section 4k(6), or board of trade designated as a contract
market in a security futures product pursuant to section 5f shall be subject to
such reasonable periodic or special examinations by representatives of the
Commission as the Commission deems necessary or appropriate in the public
interest, for the protection of investors, or otherwise in furtherance of the
purposes of this Act, and the Commission, before conducting any such
examination, shall give notice to the Securities and Exchange Commission of the
proposed examination and consult with the Securities and Exchange Commission
concerning the feasibility and desirability of coordinating the examination with
examinations conducted by the Securities and Exchange Commission in order to
avoid unnecessary regulatory duplication or undue regulatory burdens for the
registrant or board of trade.
`(II) The Commission shall notify the Securities and Exchange Commission of any
examination conducted of any futures commission merchant or introducing broker
registered pursuant to section 4f(a)(2), floor broker or floor trader exempt from
registration pursuant to section 4f(a)(3), associated person exempt from
registration pursuant to section 4k(6), or board of trade designated as a contract
market in a security futures product pursuant to section 5f, and, upon request,
furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission any examination report and
data supplied to or prepared by the Commission in connection with the
examination.
`(III) Before conducting an examination under subclause (I), the Commission
shall use the reports of examinations, unless the information sought is unavailable
in the reports, of any futures commission merchant or introducing broker
registered pursuant to section 4f(a)(2), floor broker or floor trader exempt from
registration pursuant to section 4f(a)(3), associated person exempt from
registration pursuant to section 4k(6), or board of trade designated as a contract
market in a security futures product pursuant to section 5f that is made by the
Securities and Exchange Commission, a national securities association registered
pursuant to section 15A(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C.
78o-3(a)), or a national securities exchange registered pursuant to section 6(a) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78f(a)).
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 85 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`(IV) Any records required under this subsection for a futures commission
merchant or introducing broker registered pursuant to section 4f(a)(2), floor
broker or floor trader exempt from registration pursuant to section 4f(a)(3),
associated person exempt from registration pursuant to section 4k(6), or board of
trade designated as a contract market in a security futures product pursuant to
section 5f, shall be limited to records with respect to accounts, agreements,
contracts, and transactions involving security futures products.
`(v)(I) The Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission, by rule,
regulation, or order, may jointly modify the criteria specified in subclause (I) or
(III) of clause (i), including the trading of security futures based on securities
other than equity securities, to the extent such modification fosters the
development of fair and orderly markets in security futures products, is necessary
or appropriate in the public interest, and is consistent with the protection of
investors.
`(II) The Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission, by order,
may jointly exempt any person from compliance with the criterion specified in
clause (i)(IV) to the extent such exemption fosters the development of fair and
orderly markets in security futures products, is necessary or appropriate in the
public interest, and is consistent with the protection of investors.
`(vi)(I) Notwithstanding clauses (i) and (vii), until the compliance date, a board of
trade shall not be required to meet the criterion specified in clause (i)(IV).
`(II) The Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission shall jointly
publish in the Federal Register a notice of the compliance date no later than 165
days before the compliance date.
`(III) For purposes of this clause, the term `compliance date' means the later of-
-
`(aa) 180 days after the end of the first full calendar month period in which
the average aggregate comparable share volume for all security futures
products based on single equity securities traded on all designated contract
markets and registered derivatives transaction execution facilities equals or
exceeds 10 percent of the average aggregate comparable share volume of
options on single equity securities traded on all national securities exchanges
registered pursuant to section 6(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
and any national securities associations registered pursuant to section 15A(a)
of such Act; or
`(bb) 2 years after the date on which trading in any security futures product
commences under this Act.
`(vii) It shall be unlawful for a board of trade to trade or execute a security
futures product unless the board of trade has provided the Commission with a
certification that the specific security futures product and the board of trade, as
applicable, meet the criteria specified in subclauses (I) through (XI) of clause (i),
except as otherwise provided in clause (vi).'.
(b) MARGIN ON SECURITY FUTURES- Section 2(a)(1)(C)(vi) of the Commodity
Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2a(vi)) (as redesignated by section 34) is amended--
(1) by redesignating subclause (V) as subclause (VI); and
(2) by striking `(vi)(I)' and all that follows through subclause (IV) and
inserting the following:
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 86 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`(v)(I) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, any contract market
in a stock index futures contract (or option thereon) other than a security
futures product, or any derivatives transaction execution facility on which
such contract or option is traded, shall file with the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System any rule establishing or changing the levels of
margin (initial and maintenance) for such stock index futures contract (or
option thereon) other than security futures products.
`(II) The Board may at any time request any contract market or derivatives
transaction execution facility to set the margin for any stock index futures
contract (or option thereon), other than for any security futures product, at
such levels as the Board in its judgment determines are appropriate to
preserve the financial integrity of the contract market or derivatives
transaction execution facility, or its clearing system, or to prevent systemic
risk. If the contract market or derivatives transaction execution facility fails
to do so within the time specified by the Board in its request, the Board may
direct the contract market or derivatives transaction execution facility to alter
or supplement the rules of the contract market or derivatives transaction
execution facility as specified in the request.
`(III) Subject to such conditions as the Board may determine, the Board may
delegate any or all of its authority, relating to margin for any stock index
futures contract (or option thereon), other than security futures products,
under this clause to the Commission.
`(IV) It shall be unlawful for any futures commission merchant to, directly or
indirectly, extend or maintain credit to or for, or collect margin from any
customer on any security futures product unless such activities comply with
the regulations prescribed pursuant to section 7(c)(2)(B) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934.
`(V) Nothing in this clause shall supersede or limit the authority granted to
the Commission in section 8a(9) to direct a contract market or registered
derivatives transaction execution facility, on finding an emergency to exist, to
raise temporary margin levels on any futures contract, or option on the
contract covered by this clause, or on any security futures product.'.
(c) DUAL TRADING- Section 4j of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6j) is
amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 4j. RESTRICTIONS ON DUAL TRADING IN SECURITY
FUTURES PRODUCTS ON DESIGNATED CONTRACT MARKETS AND
REGISTERED DERIVATIVES TRANSACTION EXECUTION
FACILITIES.
`(a) The Commission shall issue regulations to prohibit the privilege of dual
trading in security futures products on each contract market and registered
derivatives transaction execution facility. The regulations issued by the
Commission under this section--
`(1) shall provide that the prohibition of dual trading thereunder shall take
effect upon issuance of the regulations; and
`(2) shall provide exceptions, as the Commission determines appropriate, to
ensure fairness and orderly trading in security futures product markets,
including--
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 87 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`(A) exceptions for spread transactions and the correction of trading
errors;
`(B) allowance for a customer to designate in writing not less than once
annually a named floor broker to execute orders for such customer,
notwithstanding the regulations to prohibit the privilege of dual trading
required under this section; and
`(C) other measures reasonably designed to accommodate unique or
special characteristics of individual boards of trade or contract markets,
to address emergency or unusual market conditions, or otherwise to
further the public interest consistent with the promotion of market
efficiency, innovation, and expansion of investment opportunities, the
protection of investors, and with the purposes of this section.
`(b) As used in this section, the term `dual trading' means the execution of
customer orders by a floor broker during the same trading session in which the
floor broker executes any trade in the same contract market or registered
derivatives transaction execution facility for--
`(1) the account of such floor broker;
`(2) an account for which such floor broker has trading discretion; or
`(3) an account controlled by a person with whom such floor broker has a
relationship through membership in a broker association.
`(c) As used in this section, the term `broker association' shall include two or
more contract market members or registered derivatives transaction execution
facility members with floor trading privileges of whom at least one is acting as a
floor broker, who--
`(1) engage in floor brokerage activity on behalf of the same employer,
`(2) have an employer and employee relationship which relates to floor
brokerage activity,
`(3) share profits and losses associated with their brokerage or trading
activity, or
`(4) regularly share a deck of orders.'.
(d) EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION FOR INVESTMENT ADVISERS- Section 4m
of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6m) is amended by adding at the end
the following:
`(3) Subsection (1) of this section shall not apply to any commodity trading
advisor that is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission as an
investment adviser whose business does not consist primarily of acting as a
commodity trading advisor, as defined in section 1a(6), and that does not act as
a commodity trading advisor to any investment trust, syndicate, or similar form of
enterprise that is engaged primarily in trading in any commodity for future
delivery on or subject to the rules of any contract market or registered derivatives
transaction execution facility.'.
(e) EXEMPTION FROM INVESTIGATIONS OF MARKETS IN UNDERLYING
SECURITIES- Section 16 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 20) is
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 88 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
amended by adding at the end the following:
`(e) This section shall not apply to investigations involving any security
underlying a security futures product.'.
(f) RULEMAKING AUTHORITY TO ADDRESS DUPLICATIVE REGULATION OF DUAL
REGISTRANTS- Section 4d of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6d) is
amended--
(1) by inserting `(a)' before the first undesignated paragraph;
(2) by inserting `(b)' before the second undesignated paragraph; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
`(c) Consistent with this Act, the Commission, in consultation with the Securities
and Exchange Commission, shall issue such rules, regulations, or orders as are
necessary to avoid duplicative or conflicting regulations applicable to any futures
commission merchant registered with the Commission pursuant to section 4f(a)
(except paragraph (2) thereof), that is also registered with the Securities and
Exchange Commission pursuant to section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act
(except paragraph (11) thereof), involving the application of--
`(1) section 8, section 15(c)(3), and section 17 of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations thereunder related to the
treatment of customer funds, securities, or property, maintenance of books
and records, financial reporting or other financial responsibility rules (as
defined in section 3(a)(40) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), involving
security futures products; and
`(2) similar provisions of this Act and the rules and regulations thereunder
involving security futures products.'.
(g) OBLIGATION TO ADDRESS DUPLICATIVE REGULATION OF DUAL
REGISTRANTS- Section 17 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 21) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
`(r) Consistent with this Act, each futures association registered under this
section shall issue such rules as are necessary to avoid duplicative or conflicting
rules applicable to any futures commission merchant registered with the
Commission pursuant to section 4f(a) of this Act (except paragraph (2) thereof),
that is also registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to
section 15(b) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (except paragraph (11)
thereof), with respect to the application of--
`(1) rules of such futures association of the type specified in section 4d(3) of
this Act involving security futures products; and
`(2) similar rules of national securities associations registered pursuant to
section 15A(a) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 involving security
futures products.'.
(h) OBLIGATION TO ADDRESS DUPLICATIVE REGULATION OF DUAL
REGISTRANTS- Section 5c of the Commodity Exchange Act (as added by section
114) is amended by adding at the end the following:
`(f) Consistent with this Act, each designated contract market and registered
derivatives transaction execution facility shall issue such rules as are necessary to
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 89 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
avoid duplicative or conflicting rules applicable to any futures commission
merchant registered with the Commission pursuant to section 4f(a) of this Act
(except paragraph (2) thereof), that is also registered with the Securities and
Exchange Commission pursuant to section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (except paragraph (11) thereof) with respect to the application of--
`(1) rules of such designated contract market or registered derivatives
transaction execution facility of the type specified in section 4d(3) of this Act
involving security futures products; and
`(2) similar rules of national securities associations registered pursuant to
section 15A(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and national securities
exchanges registered pursuant to section 6(g) of such Act involving security
futures products.'.
(i) OBLIGATION TO ADDRESS SECURITY FUTURES PRODUCTS TRADED ON
FOREIGN EXCHANGES- Section 2(a)(1) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C.
2, 2a, and 4) is amended by adding at the end the following:
`(E)(i) To the extent necessary or appropriate in the public interest, to promote
fair competition, and consistent with promotion of market efficiency, innovation,
and expansion of investment opportunities, the protection of investors, and the
maintenance of fair and orderly markets, the Commission and the Securities and
Exchange Commission shall jointly issue such rules, regulations, or orders as are
necessary and appropriate to permit the offer and sale of a security futures
product traded on or subject to the rules of a foreign board of trade to United
States persons.
`(ii) The rules, regulations, or orders adopted under clause (i) shall take into
account, as appropriate, the nature and size of the markets that the securities
underlying the security futures product reflects.'.
(j) SECURITY FUTURES PRODUCTS TRADED ON FOREIGN BOARDS OF TRADE-
Section 2(a)(1) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2, 2a, and 4) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
`(F)(i) Nothing in this Act is intended to prohibit a futures commission merchant
from carrying security futures products traded on or subject to the rules of a
foreign board of trade in the accounts of persons located outside of the United
States.
`(ii) Nothing in this Act is intended to prohibit any eligible contract participant
located in the United States from purchasing or carrying securities futures
products traded on or subject to the rules of a foreign board of trade, exchange,
or market to the same extent such person may be authorized to purchase or
carry other securities traded on a foreign board of trade, exchange, or market so
long as any underlying security for such security futures products is traded
principally on, by, or through any exchange or market located outside the United
States.'.
SEC. 252. APPLICATION OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT TO
NATIONAL SECURITIES EXCHANGES AND NATIONAL SECURITIES
ASSOCIATIONS THAT TRADE SECURITY FUTURES.
(a) NOTICE DESIGNATION OF NATIONAL SECURITIES EXCHANGES AND
NATIONAL SECURITIES ASSOCIATIONS- The Commodity Exchange Act is
amended by inserting after section 5e (7 U.S.C. 7b), as redesignated by section
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 90 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
21(1), the following:
`SEC. 5f. DESIGNATION OF SECURITIES EXCHANGES AND
ASSOCIATIONS AS CONTRACT MARKETS.
`(a) Any board of trade that is registered with the Securities and Exchange
Commission as a national securities exchange, is a national securities association
registered pursuant to section 15A(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or
is an alternative trading system shall be a designated contract market in security
futures products if--
`(1) such national securities exchange, national securities association, or
alternative trading system lists or trades no other contracts of sale for future
delivery, except for security futures products;
`(2) such national securities exchange, national securities association, or
alternative trading system files written notice with the Commission in such
form as the Commission, by rule, may prescribe containing such information
as the Commission, by rule, may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the
public interest or for the protection of customers; and
`(3) the registration of such national securities exchange, national securities
association, or alternative trading system is not suspended pursuant to an
order by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Such designation shall be effective contemporaneously with the submission of
notice, in written or electronic form, to the Commission.
`(b)(1) A national securities exchange, national securities association, or
alternative trading system that is designated as a contract market pursuant to
section 5f shall be exempt from the following provisions of this Act and the rules
thereunder:
`(A) Subsections (c), (e), and (g) of section 4c.
`(B) Section 4j.
`(C) Section 5.
`(D) Section 5c.
`(E) Section 6a.
`(F) Section 8(d).
`(G) Section 9(f).
`(H) Section 16.
`(2) An alternative trading system that is a designated contract market under this
section shall be required to be a member of a futures association registered under
section 17 and shall be exempt from any provision of this Act that would require
such alternative trading system to--
`(A) set rules governing the conduct of subscribers other than the conduct of
such subscribers' trading on such alternative trading system; or
`(B) discipline subscribers other than by exclusion from trading.
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 91 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`(3) To the extent that an alternative trading system is exempt from any
provision of this Act pursuant to paragraph (2) of this subsection, the futures
association registered under section 17 of which the alternative trading system is
a member shall set rules governing the conduct of subscribers to the alternative
trading system and discipline the subscribers.
`(4)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), but notwithstanding any other
provision of this Act, the Commission, by rule, regulation, or order, may
conditionally or unconditionally exempt any designated contract market in security
futures subject to the designation requirement of this section from any provision
of this Act or of any rule or regulation thereunder, to the extent such exemption
is necessary or appropriate in the public interest and is consistent with the
protection of investors.
`(B) The Commission shall, by rule or regulation, determine the procedures under
which an exemptive order under this section is granted and may, in its sole
discretion, decline to entertain any application for an order of exemption under
this section.
`(C) An alternative trading system shall not be deemed to be an exchange for
any purpose as a result of the designation of such alternative trading system as a
contract market under this section.'.
(b) NOTICE REGISTRATION OF CERTAIN SECURITIES BROKER-DEALERS;
EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION FOR CERTAIN SECURITIES BROKER-DEALERS-
Section 4f(a) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6f(a)) is amended--
(1) by inserting `(1)' after `(a)'; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
`(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), and except as provided in paragraph (3), any
broker or dealer that is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission
shall be registered as a futures commission merchant or introducing broker, as
applicable, if--
`(A) the broker or dealer limits its solicitation of orders, acceptance of
orders, or execution of orders, or placing of orders on behalf of others
involving any contracts of sale of any commodity for future delivery, on or
subject to the rules of any contract market or registered derivatives
transaction execution facility to security futures products;
`(B) the broker or dealer files written notice with the Commission in such
form as the Commission, by rule, may prescribe containing such information
as the Commission, by rule, may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the
public interest or for the protection of investors;
`(C) the registration of the broker or dealer is not suspended pursuant to an
order of the Securities and Exchange Commission; and
`(D) the broker or dealer is a member of a national securities association
registered pursuant to section 15A(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
The registration shall be effective contemporaneously with the submission of
notice, in written or electronic form, to the Commission.
`(3) A floor broker or floor trader shall be exempt from the registration
requirements of section 4e and paragraph (1) of this subsection if--
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 92 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`(A) the floor broker or floor trader is a broker or dealer registered with the
Securities and Exchange Commission;
`(B) the floor broker or floor trader limits its solicitation of orders,
acceptance of orders, or execution of orders, or placing of orders on behalf
of others involving any contracts of sale of any commodity for future
delivery, on or subject to the rules of any contract market to security futures
products; and
`(C) the registration of the floor broker or floor trader is not suspended
pursuant to an order of the Securities and Exchange Commission.'.
(c) EXEMPTION FOR SECURITIES BROKER-DEALERS FROM CERTAIN PROVISIONS
OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT- Section 4f(a) of the Commodity Exchange
Act (7 U.S.C. 6f(a)) is amended by inserting after paragraph (3), as added by
subsection (b) of this section, the following:
`(4)(A) A broker or dealer that is registered as a futures commission merchant or
introducing broker pursuant to paragraph (2), or that is a floor broker or floor
trader exempt from registration pursuant to paragraph (3), shall be exempt from
the following provisions of this Act and the rules thereunder:
`(i) Subsections (b), (d), (e), and (g) of section 4c.
`(ii) Sections 4d, 4e, and 4h.
`(iii) Subsections (b) and (c) of this section.
`(iv) Section 4j.
`(v) Section 4k(1).
`(vi) Section 4p.
`(vii) Section 6d.
`(viii) Subsections (d) and (g) of section 8.
`(ix) Section 16.
`(B)(i) Except as provided in clause (ii) of this subparagraph, but notwithstanding
any other provision of this Act, the Commission, by rule, regulation, or order, may
conditionally or unconditionally exempt any broker or dealer subject to the
registration requirement of paragraph (2), or any broker or dealer exempt from
registration pursuant to paragraph (3), from any provision of this Act or of any
rule or regulation thereunder, to the extent the exemption is necessary or
appropriate in the public interest and is consistent with the protection of investors.
`(ii) The Commission shall, by rule or regulation, determine the procedures under
which an exemptive order under this section shall be granted and may, in its sole
discretion, decline to entertain any application for an order of exemption under
this section.
`(C)(i) A broker or dealer that is registered as a futures commission merchant or
introducing broker pursuant to paragraph (2) or an associated person thereof, or
that is a floor broker or floor trader exempt from registration pursuant to
paragraph (3), shall not be required to become a member of any futures
association registered under section 17.
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 93 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`(ii) No futures association registered under section 17 shall limit its members
from carrying an account, accepting an order, or transacting business with a
broker or dealer that is registered as a futures commission merchant or
introducing broker pursuant to paragraph (2) or an associated person thereof, or
that is a floor broker or floor trader exempt from registration pursuant to
paragraph (3).'.
(d) EXEMPTIONS FOR ASSOCIATED PERSONS OF SECURITIES BROKER-DEALERS-
Section 4k of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6k), is amended by inserting
after paragraph (4), as added by subsection (c) of this section, the following:
`(5) Any associated person of a broker or dealer that is registered with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, and who limits its solicitation of orders,
acceptance of orders, or execution of orders, or placing of orders on behalf of
others involving any contracts of sale of any commodity for future delivery or any
option on such a contract, on or subject to the rules of any contract market or
registered derivatives transaction execution facility to security futures products,
shall be exempt from the following provisions of this Act and the rules
thereunder:
`(A) Subsections (b), (d), (e), and (g) of section 4c.
`(B) Sections 4d, 4e, and 4h.
`(C) Subsections (b) and (c) of section 4f.
`(D) Section 4j.
`(E) Paragraph (1) of this section.
`(F) Section 4p.
`(G) Section 6d.
`(H) Subsections (d) and (g) of section 8.
`(I) Section 16.'.
SEC. 253. NOTIFICATION OF INVESTIGATIONS AND
ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS.
(a) Section 8(a) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 12(a)) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
`(3) The Commission shall provide the Securities and Exchange Commission with
notice of the commencement of any proceeding and a copy of any order entered
by the Commission against any futures commission merchant or introducing
broker registered pursuant to section 4f(a)(2), any floor broker or floor trader
exempt from registration pursuant to section 4f(a)(3), any associated person
exempt from registration pursuant to section 4k(6), or any board of trade
designated as a contract market pursuant to section 5f.'.
(b) Section 6 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 8, 9, 9a, 9b, 13b, 15) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
`(g) The Commission shall provide the Securities and Exchange Commission with
notice of the commencement of any proceeding and a copy of any order entered
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 94 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
by the Commission pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of this section against any
futures commission merchant or introducing broker registered pursuant to section
4f(a)(2), any floor broker or floor trader exempt from registration pursuant to
section 4f(a)(3), any associated person exempt from registration pursuant to
section 4k(6), or any board of trade designated as a contract market pursuant to
section 5f.'.
(c) Section 6c of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 13a-1) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
`(h) The Commission shall provide the Securities and Exchange Commission with
notice of the commencement of any proceeding and a copy of any order entered
by the Commission against any futures commission merchant or introducing
broker registered pursuant to section 4f(a)(2), any floor broker or floor trader
exempt from registration pursuant to section 4f(a)(3), any associated person
exempt from registration pursuant to section 4k(6), or any board of trade
designated as a contract market pursuant to section 5f.'.
TITLE III--LEGAL CERTAINTY FOR SWAP AGREEMENTS
SEC. 301. SWAP AGREEMENT.
(a) AMENDMENT- Title II of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (Public Law 106-102) is
amended by inserting after section 206 the following new sections:
`SEC. 206A. SWAP AGREEMENT.
`(a) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subsection (b), as used in this section,
the term `swap agreement' means any agreement, contract, or transaction
between eligible contract participants (as defined in section 1a(12) of the
Commodity Exchange Act as in effect on the date of the enactment of this
section), other than a person that is an eligible contract participant under section
1a(12)(C) of the Commodity Exchange Act, the material terms of which (other
than price and quantity) are subject to individual negotiation, and that--
`(1) is a put, call, cap, floor, collar, or similar option of any kind for the
purchase or sale of, or based on the value of, one or more interest or other
rates, currencies, commodities, indices, quantitative measures, or other
financial or economic interests or property of any kind;
`(2) provides for any purchase, sale, payment or delivery (other than a
dividend on an equity security) that is dependent on the occurrence, non-
occurrence, or the extent of the occurrence of an event or contingency
associated with a potential financial, economic, or commercial consequence;
`(3) provides on an executory basis for the exchange, on a fixed or
contingent basis, of one or more payments based on the value or level of
one or more interest or other rates, currencies, commodities, securities,
instruments of indebtedness, indices, quantitative measures, or other
financial or economic interests or property of any kind, or any interest
therein or based on the value thereof, and that transfers, as between the
parties to the transaction, in whole or in part, the financial risk associated
with a future change in any such value or level without also conveying a
current or future direct or indirect ownership interest in an asset (including
any enterprise or investment pool) or liability that incorporates the financial
risk so transferred, including any such agreement, contract, or transaction
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 95 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
commonly known as an interest rate swap, including a rate floor, rate cap,
rate collar, cross-currency rate swap, basis swap, currency swap, equity
index swap, equity swap, debt index swap, debt swap, credit spread, credit
default swap, credit swap, weather swap, or commodity swap;
`(4) provides for the purchase or sale, on a fixed or contingent basis, of any
commodity, currency, instrument, interest, right, service, good, article, or
property of any kind; or
`(5) is any combination or permutation of, or option on, any agreement,
contract, or transaction described in any of paragraphs (1) through (4).
`(b) EXCLUSIONS- The term `swap agreement' does not include--
`(1) any put, call, straddle, option, or privilege on any security, certificate of
deposit, or group or index of securities, including any interest therein or
based on the value thereof;
`(2) any put, call, straddle, option, or privilege entered into on a national
securities exchange registered pursuant to section 6(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 relating to foreign currency;
`(3) any agreement, contract, or transaction providing for the purchase or
sale of one or more securities on a fixed basis;
`(4) any agreement, contract, or transaction providing for the purchase or
sale of one or more securities on a contingent basis, unless such agreement,
contract, or transaction predicates such purchase or sale on the occurrence of
a bona fide contingency that might reasonably be expected to affect or be
affected by the creditworthiness of a party other than a party to the
agreement, contract, or transaction;
`(5) any note, bond, or evidence of indebtedness that is a security as
defined in section 2(a)(1) of the Securities Act of 1933 or section 3(a)(10) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; or
`(6) any agreement, contract, or transaction that is--
`(A) based on a security; and
`(B) entered into directly or through an underwriter (as defined in
section 2(a) of the Securities Act of 1933) by the issuer of such security
for the purposes of raising capital, unless such agreement, contract, or
transaction is entered into to manage a risk associated with capital
raising.
`(c) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION REGARDING MASTER AGREEMENTS- As used in
this section, the term `swap agreement' shall be construed to include a master
agreement that provides for an agreement, contract, or transaction that is a swap
agreement pursuant to subsections (a) and (b), together with all supplements to
any such master agreement, without regard to whether the master agreement
contains an agreement, contract, or transaction that is not a swap agreement
pursuant to subsections (a) and (b), except that the master agreement shall be
considered to be a swap agreement only with respect to each agreement,
contract, or transaction under the master agreement that is a swap agreement
pursuant to subsections (a) and (b).
`SEC. 206B. SECURITY-BASED SWAP AGREEMENT.
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 96 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
`As used in this section, the term `security-based swap agreement' means a
swap agreement (as defined in section 206A) of which a material term is based
on the price, yield, value, or volatility of any security or any group or index of
securities, or any interest therein.
`SEC. 206C. NON-SECURITY-BASED SWAP AGREEMENT.
`As used in this section, the term `non-security-based swap agreement' means
any swap agreement (as defined in section 206A) that is not a security-based
swap agreement (as defined in section 206B).'.
(b) SECURITY DEFINITION- As used in the amendment made by subsection (a),
the term `security' has the same meaning as in section 2(a)(1) of the Securities
Act of 1933 or section 3(a)(10) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
SEC. 302. AMENDMENTS TO THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933.
(a) ENFORCEMENT FOCUS- The Securities Act of 1933 is amended by inserting
after section 2 (15 U.S.C. 77b) the following new section:
`SEC. 2A. SWAP AGREEMENTS.
`(a) NON-SECURITY-BASED SWAP AGREEMENTS- The definition of `security' in
section 2(a)(1) of this title does not include any non-security-based swap
agreement (as defined in section 206C of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act).
`(b) SECURITY-BASED SWAP AGREEMENTS-
`(1) The definition of `security' in section 2(a)(1) of this title does not
include any security-based swap agreement (as defined in section 206B of
the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act).
`(2) The Commission is prohibited from registering, or requiring,
recommending, or suggesting, the registration under this title of any
security-based swap agreement (as defined in section 206B of the Gramm-
Leach-Bliley Act). If the Commission becomes aware that a registrant has
filed a registration statement with respect to such a swap agreement, the
Commission shall promptly so notify the registrant. Any such registration
statement with respect to such a swap agreement shall be void and of no
force or effect.
`(3) The Commission is prohibited from--
`(A) promulgating, interpreting, or enforcing rules; or
`(B) issuing orders of general applicability;
under this title in a manner that imposes or specifies reporting or
recordkeeping requirements, procedures, or standards as prophylactic
measures against fraud, manipulation, or insider trading with respect to any
security-based swap agreement (as defined in section 206B of the Gramm-
Leach-Bliley Act).
`(4) References in this title to the `purchase' or `sale' of a security-based
swap agreement shall be deemed to mean the execution, termination (prior
to its scheduled maturity date), assignment, exchange, or similar transfer or
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 97 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
conveyance of, or extinguishing of rights or obligations under, a security-
based swap agreement (as defined in section 206B of the Gramm-Leach-
Bliley Act), as the context may require.'.
(b) ANTI-FRAUD AND ANTI-MANIPULATION ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY- Section
17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77q(a)) is amended to read as
follows:
`(a) It shall be unlawful for any person in the offer or sale of any securities or
any security-based swap agreement (as defined in section 206B of the Gramm-
Leach-Bliley Act) by the use of any means or instruments of transportation or
communication in interstate commerce or by use of the mails, directly or
indirectly--
`(1) to employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud, or
`(2) to obtain money or property by means of any untrue statement of a
material fact or any omission to state a material fact necessary in order to
make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which they
were made, not misleading; or
`(3) to engage in any transaction, practice, or course of business which
operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon the purchaser.'.
(c) LIMITATION- Section 17 of the Securities Act of 1933 is amended by adding at
the end the following new subsection:
`(d) The authority of the Commission under this section with respect to security-
based swap agreements (as defined in section 206B of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley
Act) shall be subject to the restrictions and limitations of section 2A(b) of this
title.'.
SEC. 303. AMENDMENTS TO THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934.
(a) ENFORCEMENT FOCUS- The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is amended by
inserting after section 3 (15 U.S.C. 78c) the following new section:
`SEC. 3A. SWAP AGREEMENTS.
`(a) NON-SECURITY-BASED SWAP AGREEMENTS- The definition of `security' in
section 3(a)(10) of this title does not include any non-security-based swap
agreement (as defined in section 206C of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act).
`(b) SECURITY-BASED SWAP AGREEMENTS-
`(1) The definition of `security' in section 3(a)(10) of this title does not
include any security-based swap agreement (as defined in section 206B of
the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act).
`(2) The Commission is prohibited from registering, or requiring,
recommending, or suggesting, the registration under this title of any
security-based swap agreement (as defined in section 206B of the Gramm-
Leach-Bliley Act). If the Commission becomes aware that a registrant has
filed a registration application with respect to such a swap agreement, the
Commission shall promptly so notify the registrant. Any such registration
with respect to such a swap agreement shall be void and of no force or
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 98 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
effect.
`(3) Except as provided in section 16(a) with respect to reporting
requirements, the Commission is prohibited from--
`(A) promulgating, interpreting, or enforcing rules; or
`(B) issuing orders of general applicability;
under this title in a manner that imposes or specifies reporting or
recordkeeping requirements, procedures, or standards as prophylactic
measures against fraud, manipulation, or insider trading with respect to any
security-based swap agreement (as defined in section 206B of the Gramm-
Leach-Bliley Act).
`(4) References in this title to the `purchase' or `sale' of a security-based
swap agreement (as defined in section 206B of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act)
shall be deemed to mean the execution, termination (prior to its scheduled
maturity date), assignment, exchange, or similar transfer or conveyance of,
or extinguishing of rights or obligations under, a security-based swap
agreement, as the context may require.'.
(b) ANTI-FRAUD, ANTI-MANIPULATION ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY- Paragraphs
(2) through (5) of section 9(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C.
78i(a)(2)-(5)) are amended to read as follows:
`(2) To effect, alone or with one or more other persons, a series of transactions
in any security registered on a national securities exchange or in connection with
any security-based swap agreement (as defined in section 206B of the Gramm-
Leach-Bliley Act) with respect to such security creating actual or apparent active
trading in such security, or raising or depressing the price of such security, for the
purpose of inducing the purchase or sale of such security by others.
`(3) If a dealer or broker, or other person selling or offering for sale or
purchasing or offering to purchase the security or a security-based swap
agreement (as defined in section 206B of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act) with
respect to such security, to induce the purchase or sale of any security registered
on a national securities exchange or any security-based swap agreement (as
defined in section 206B of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act) with respect to such
security by the circulation or dissemination in the ordinary course of business of
information to the effect that the price of any such security will or is likely to rise
or fall because of market operations of any one or more persons conducted for
the purpose of raising or depressing the price of such security.
`(4) If a dealer or broker, or the person selling or offering for sale or purchasing
or offering to purchase the security or a security-based swap agreement (as
defined in section 206B of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act) with respect to such
security, to make, regarding any security registered on a national securities
exchange or any security-based swap agreement (as defined in section 206B of
the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act) with respect to such security, for the purpose of
inducing the purchase or sale of such security or such security-based swap
agreement, any statement which was at the time and in the light of the
circumstances under which it was made, false or misleading with respect to any
material fact, and which he knew or had reasonable ground to believe was so
false or misleading.
`(5) For a consideration, received directly or indirectly from a dealer or broker, or
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 99 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
other person selling or offering for sale or purchasing or offering to purchase the
security or a security-based swap agreement (as defined in section 206B of the
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act) with respect to such security, to induce the purchase of
any security registered on a national securities exchange or any security-based
swap agreement (as defined in section 206B of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act) with
respect to such security by the circulation or dissemination of information to the
effect that the price of any such security will or is likely to rise or fall because of
the market operations of any one or more persons conducted for the purpose of
raising or depressing the price of such security.'.
(c) LIMITATION- Section 9 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is amended by
adding at the end the following new subsection:
`(i) The authority of the Commission under this section with respect to security-
based swap agreements (as defined in section 206B of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley
Act) shall be subject to the restrictions and limitations of section 3A(b) of this
title.'.
(d) REGULATIONS ON THE USE OF MANIPULATIVE AND DECEPTIVE DEVICES-
Section 10 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78j) is amended--
(1) in subsection (b), by inserting `or any securities-based swap agreement
(as defined in section 206B of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act),' before `any
manipulative or deceptive device'; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
`Rules promulgated under subsection (b) that prohibit fraud, manipulation, or
insider trading (but not rules imposing or specifying reporting or recordkeeping
requirements, procedures, or standards as prophylactic measures against fraud,
manipulation, or insider trading), and judicial precedents decided under subsection
(b) and rules promulgated thereunder that prohibit fraud, manipulation, or insider
trading, shall apply to security-based swap agreements (as defined in section
206B of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act) to the same extent as they apply to
securities. Judicial precedents decided under section 17(a) of the Securities Act of
1933 and sections 9, 15, 16, 20, and 21A of this title, and judicial precedents
decided under applicable rules promulgated under such sections, shall apply to
security-based swap agreements (as defined in section 206B of the Gramm-
Leach-Bliley Act) to the same extent as they apply to securities.'.
(e) BROKER, DEALER ANTI-FRAUD, ANTI-MANIPULATION ENFORCEMENT
AUTHORITY- Section 15(c)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C.
78o(c)(1)) is amended to read as follows:
`(c)(1)(A) No broker or dealer shall make use of the mails or any means or
instrumentality of interstate commerce to effect any transaction in, or to induce
or attempt to induce the purchase or sale of, any security (other than commercial
paper, bankers' acceptances, or commercial bills) otherwise than on a national
securities exchange of which it is a member, or any security-based swap
agreement (as defined in section 206B of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act), by means
of any manipulative, deceptive, or other fraudulent device or contrivance.
`(B) No municipal securities dealer shall make use of the mails or any means or
instrumentality of interstate commerce to effect any transaction in, or to induce
or attempt to induce the purchase or sale of, any municipal security or any
security-based swap agreement (as defined in section 206B of the Gramm-Leach-
Bliley Act) involving a municipal security by means of any manipulative,
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 100 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
deceptive, or other fraudulent device or contrivance.
`(C) No government securities broker or government securities dealer shall make
use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce to effect
any transaction in, or to induce or to attempt to induce the purchase or sale of,
any government security or any security-based swap agreement (as defined in
section 206B of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act) involving a government security by
means of any manipulative, deceptive, or other fraudulent device or contrivance.'.
(f) LIMITATION- Section 15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C.
78o) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
`(i) The authority of the Commission under this section with respect to security-
based swap agreements (as defined in section 206B of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley
Act) shall be subject to the restrictions and limitations of section 3A(b) of this
title.'.
(g) ANTI-INSIDER TRADING ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY- Subsections (a) and (b)
of section 16 (15 U.S.C. 78p(a), (b)) of the Securities Exchange of 1934 are
amended to read as follows:
`(a) Every person who is directly or indirectly the beneficial owner of more than
10 per centum of any class of any equity security (other than an exempted
security) which is registered pursuant to section 12 of this title, or who is a
director or an officer of the issuer of such security, shall file, at the time of the
registration of such security on a national securities exchange or by the effective
date of a registration statement filed pursuant to section 12(g) of this title, or
within ten days after he becomes such beneficial owner, director, or officer, a
statement with the Commission (and, if such security is registered on a national
securities exchange, also with the exchange) of the amount of all equity securities
of such issuer of which he is the beneficial owner, and within ten days after the
close of each calendar month thereafter, if there has been a change in such
ownership or if such person shall have purchased or sold a security-based swap
agreement (as defined in section 206B of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act) involving
such equity security during such month, shall file with the Commission (and if
such security is registered on a national securities exchange, shall also file with
the exchange), a statement indicating his ownership at the close of the calendar
month and such changes in his ownership and such purchases and sales of such
security-based swap agreements as have occurred during such calendar month.
`(b) For the purpose of preventing the unfair use of information which may have
been obtained by such beneficial owner, director, or officer by reason of his
relationship to the issuer, any profit realized by him from any purchase and sale,
or any sale and purchase, of any equity security of such issuer (other than an
exempted security) or a security-based swap agreement (as defined in section
206B of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act) involving any such equity security within
any period of less than six months, unless such security or security-based swap
agreement was acquired in good faith in connection with a debt previously
contracted, shall inure to and be recoverable by the issuer, irrespective of any
intention on the part of such beneficial owner, director, or officer in entering into
such transaction of holding the security or security-based swap agreement
purchased or of not repurchasing the security or security-based swap agreement
sold for a period exceeding six months. Suit to recover such profit may be
instituted at law or in equity in any court of competent jurisdiction by the issuer,
or by the owner of any security of the issuer in the name and in behalf of the
issuer if the issuer shall fail or refuse to bring such suit within sixty days after
request or shall fail diligently to prosecute the same thereafter; but no such suit
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 101 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
shall be brought more than two years after the date such profit was realized. This
subsection shall not be construed to cover any transaction where such beneficial
owner was not such both at the time of the purchase and sale, or the sale and
purchase, of the security or security-based swap agreement (as defined in section
206B of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act) involved, or any transaction or transactions
which the Commission by rules and regulations may exempt as not comprehended
within the purpose of this subsection.'.
(h) LIMITATION- Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C.
78p) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
`(g) The authority of the Commission under this section with respect to security-
based swap agreements (as defined in section 206B of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley
Act) shall be subject to the restrictions and limitations of section 3A(b) of this
title.'.
(i) MATERIAL NONPUBLIC INFORMATION- Section 20(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78t(d)) is amended to read as follows:
`(d) Wherever communicating, or purchasing or selling a security while in
possession of, material nonpublic information would violate, or result in liability to
any purchaser or seller of the security under any provisions of this title, or any
rule or regulation thereunder, such conduct in connection with a purchase or sale
of a put, call, straddle, option, privilege or security-based swap agreement (as
defined in section 206B of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act) with respect to such
security or with respect to a group or index of securities including such security,
shall also violate and result in comparable liability to any purchaser or seller of
that security under such provision, rule, or regulation.'.
(j) LIMITATION- Section 20 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C.
78t) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
`(f) The authority of the Commission under this section with respect to security-
based swap agreements (as defined in section 206B of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley
Act) shall be subject to the restrictions and limitations of section 3A(b) of this
title.'.
(k) CIVIL PENALTIES- Section 21A(a)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(15 U.S.C. 78u-1(a)(1)) is amended by inserting after `purchasing or selling a
security' the following: `or security-based swap agreement (as defined in section
206B of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act)'.
(l) LIMITATION- Section 21A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C.
78u-1) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
`(g) The authority of the Commission under this section with respect to security-
based swap agreements (as defined in section 206B of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley
Act) shall be subject to the restrictions and limitations of section 3A(b) of this
title.'.
SEC. 304. SAVINGS PROVISIONS.
Nothing in this Act or the amendments made by this Act shall be construed as
finding or implying that any swap agreement is or is not a security for any
purpose under the securities laws. Nothing in this Act or the amendments made
by this Act shall be construed as finding or implying that any swap agreement is
or is not a futures contract or commodity option for any purpose under the
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 102 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
Commodity Exchange Act.
TITLE IV--REGULATORY RESPONSIBILITY FOR BANK PRODUCTS
SEC. 401. SHORT TITLE.
This title may be cited as the `Legal Certainty for Bank Products Act of 2000'.
SEC. 402. DEFINITIONS.
(a) BANK- In this title, the term `bank' means--
(1) any depository institution (as defined in section 3(c) of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act);
(2) any foreign bank or branch or agency of a foreign bank (each as defined
in section 1(b) of the International Banking Act of 1978);
(3) any Federal or State credit union (as defined in section 101 of the
Federal Credit Union Act);
(4) any corporation organized under section 25A of the Federal Reserve Act;
(5) any corporation operating under section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act;
(6) any trust company; or
(7) any subsidiary of any entity described in paragraph (1) through (6) of
this subsection, if the subsidiary is regulated as if the subsidiary were part of
the entity and is not a broker or dealer (as such terms are defined in section
3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) or a futures commission merchant
(as defined in section 1a(20) of the Commodity Exchange Act).
(b) IDENTIFIED BANKING PRODUCT- In this title, the term `identified banking
product' shall have the same meaning as in paragraphs (1) through (5) of section
206(a) of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, except that in applying such section for
purposes of this title--
(1) the term `bank' shall have the meaning given in subsection (a) of this
section; and
(2) the term `qualified investor' means eligible contract participant (as
defined in section 1a(12) of the Commodity Exchange Act, as in effect on the
date of the enactment of the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000).
(c) HYBRID INSTRUMENT- In this title, the term `hybrid instrument' means an
identified banking product not excluded by section 403 of this Act, offered by a
bank, having one or more payments indexed to the value, level, or rate of, or
providing for the delivery of, one or more commodities (as defined in section
1a(4) of the Commodity Exchange Act).
(d) COVERED SWAP AGREEMENT- In this title, the term `covered swap
agreement' means a swap agreement (as defined in section 206(b) of the
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act), including a credit or equity swap, based on a
commodity other than an agricultural commodity enumerated in section 1a(4) of
the Commodity Exchange Act if--
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 103 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
(1) the swap agreement--
(A) is entered into only between persons that are eligible contract
participants (as defined in section 1a(12) of the Commodity Exchange
Act, as in effect on the date of the enactment of the Commodity Futures
Modernization Act of 2000) at the time the persons enter into the swap
agreement; and
(B) is not entered into or executed on a trading facility (as defined in
section 1a(33) of the Commodity Exchange Act); or
(2) the swap agreement--
(A) is entered into or executed on an electronic trading facility (as
defined in section 1a(10) of the Commodity Exchange Act);
(B) is entered into on a principal-to-principal basis between parties
trading for their own accounts or as described in section 1a(12)(B)(ii) of
the Commodity Exchange Act;
(C) is entered into only between persons that are eligible contract
participants as described in subparagraph (A), (B)(ii), or (C) of section
1a(12) of the Commodity Exchange Act, as in effect on the date of the
enactment of the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000, at the
time the persons enter into the swap agreement; and
(D) is an agreement, contract or transaction in an excluded commodity
(as defined in section 1a(13) of the Commodity Exchange Act).
SEC. 403. EXCLUSION OF IDENTIFIED BANKING PRODUCTS
COMMONLY OFFERED ON OR BEFORE DECEMBER 5, 2000.
No provision of the Commodity Exchange Act shall apply to, and the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission shall not exercise regulatory authority with respect
to, an identified banking product if--
(1) an appropriate banking agency certifies that the product has been
commonly offered, entered into, or provided in the United States by any
bank on or before December 5, 2000, under applicable banking law; and
(2) the product was not prohibited by the Commodity Exchange Act and not
regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a contract of
sale of a commodity for future delivery (or an option on such a contract) or
an option on a commodity, on or before December 5, 2000.
SEC. 404. EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN IDENTIFIED BANKING
PRODUCTS OFFERED BY BANKS AFTER DECEMBER 5, 2000.
No provision of the Commodity Exchange Act shall apply to, and the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission shall not exercise regulatory authority with respect
to, an identified banking product which had not been commonly offered, entered
into, or provided in the United States by any bank on or before December 5,
2000, under applicable banking law if--
(1) the product has no payment indexed to the value, level, or rate of, and
does not provide for the delivery of, any commodity (as defined in section
1a(4) of the Commodity Exchange Act); or
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 104 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
(2) the product or commodity is otherwise excluded from the Commodity
Exchange Act.
SEC. 405. EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN OTHER IDENTIFIED BANKING
PRODUCTS.
(a) IN GENERAL- No provision of the Commodity Exchange Act shall apply to, and
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission shall not exercise regulatory authority
with respect to, a banking product if the product is a hybrid instrument that is
predominantly a banking product under the predominance test set forth in
subsection (b).
(b) PREDOMINANCE TEST- A hybrid instrument shall be considered to be
predominantly a banking product for purposes of this section if--
(1) the issuer of the hybrid instrument receives payment in full of the
purchase price of the hybrid instrument substantially contemporaneously with
delivery of the hybrid instrument;
(2) the purchaser or holder of the hybrid instrument is not required to make
under the terms of the instrument, or any arrangement referred to in the
instrument, any payment to the issuer in addition to the purchase price
referred to in paragraph (1), whether as margin, settlement payment, or
otherwise during the life of the hybrid instrument or at maturity;
(3) the issuer of the hybrid instrument is not subject by the terms of the
instrument to mark-to-market margining requirements; and
(4) the hybrid instrument is not marketed as a contract of sale of a
commodity for future delivery (or option on such a contract) subject to the
Commodity Exchange Act.
(c) MARK-TO-MARKET MARGINING REQUIREMENT- For purposes of subsection
(b)(3), mark-to-market margining requirements shall not include the obligation of
an issuer of a secured debt instrument to increase the amount of collateral held in
pledge for the benefit of the purchaser of the secured debt instrument to secure
the repayment obligations of the issuer under the secured debt instrument.
SEC. 406. ADMINISTRATION OF THE PREDOMINANCE TEST.
(a) IN GENERAL- No provision of the Commodity Exchange Act shall apply to, and
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission shall not regulate, a hybrid
instrument, unless the Commission determines, by or under a rule issued in
accordance with this section, that--
(1) the action is necessary and appropriate in the public interest;
(2) the action is consistent with the Commodity Exchange Act and the
purposes of the Commodity Exchange Act; and
(3) the hybrid instrument is not predominantly a banking product under the
predominance test set forth in section 405(b) of this Act.
(b) CONSULTATION- Before commencing a rulemaking or making a determination
pursuant to a rule issued under this title, the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission shall consult with and seek the concurrence of the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System concerning--
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 105 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
(1) the nature of the hybrid instrument; and
(2) the history, purpose, extent, and appropriateness of the regulation of the
hybrid instrument under the Commodity Exchange Act and under appropriate
banking laws.
(c) OBJECTION TO COMMISSION REGULATION-
(1) FILING OF PETITION FOR REVIEW- The Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System may obtain review of any rule or determination referred to
in subsection (a) in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia Circuit by filing in the court, not later than 60 days after the date
of publication of the rule or determination, a written petition requesting that
the rule or determination be set aside. Any proceeding to challenge any such
rule or determination shall be expedited by the court.
(2) TRANSMITTAL OF PETITION AND RECORD- A copy of a petition described
in paragraph (1) shall be transmitted as soon as possible by the Clerk of the
court to an officer or employee of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission designated for that purpose. Upon receipt of the petition, the
Commission shall file with the court the rule or determination under review
and any documents referred to therein, and any other relevant materials
prescribed by the court.
(3) EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION- On the date of the filing of a petition under
paragraph (1), the court shall have jurisdiction, which shall become exclusive
on the filing of the materials set forth in paragraph (2), to affirm and enforce
or to set aside the rule or determination at issue.
(4) STANDARD OF REVIEW- The court shall determine to affirm and enforce
or set aside a rule or determination of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission under this section, based on the determination of the court as to
whether--
(A) the subject product is predominantly a banking product; and
(B) making the provision or provisions of the Commodity Exchange Act
at issue applicable to the subject instrument is appropriate in light of
the history, purpose, and extent of regulation under such Act, this title,
and under the appropriate banking laws, giving deference neither to the
views of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission nor the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
(5) JUDICIAL STAY- The filing of a petition by the Board pursuant to
paragraph (1) shall operate as a judicial stay, until the date on which the
determination of the court is final (including any appeal of the
determination).
(6) OTHER AUTHORITY TO CHALLENGE- Any aggrieved party may seek
judicial review pursuant to section 6(c) of the Commodity Exchange Act of a
determination or rulemaking by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
under this section.
SEC. 407. EXCLUSION OF COVERED SWAP AGREEMENTS.
No provision of the Commodity Exchange Act (other than section 5b of such Act
with respect to the clearing of covered swap agreements) shall apply to, and the
7/9/09 3:58 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 106 of 106http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c106:./temp/~c106GXw9GO
Commodity Futures Trading Commission shall not exercise regulatory authority
with respect to, a covered swap agreement offered, entered into, or provided by a
bank.
SEC. 408. CONTRACT ENFORCEMENT.
(a) HYBRID INSTRUMENTS- No hybrid instrument shall be void, voidable, or
unenforceable, and no party to a hybrid instrument shall be entitled to rescind, or
recover any payment made with respect to, a hybrid instrument under any
provision of Federal or State law, based solely on the failure of the hybrid
instrument to satisfy the predominance test set forth in section 405(b) of this Act
or to comply with the terms or conditions of an exemption or exclusion from any
provision of the Commodity Exchange Act or any regulation of the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission.
(b) COVERED SWAP AGREEMENTS- No covered swap agreement shall be void,
voidable, or unenforceable, and no party to a covered swap agreement shall be
entitled to rescind, or recover any payment made with respect to, a covered swap
agreement under any provision of Federal or State law, based solely on the failure
of the covered swap agreement to comply with the terms or conditions of an
exemption or exclusion from any provision of the Commodity Exchange Act or any
regulation of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
(c) PREEMPTION- This title shall supersede and preempt the application of any
State or local law that prohibits or regulates gaming or the operation of bucket
shops (other than antifraud provisions of general applicability) in the case of--
(1) a hybrid instrument that is predominantly a banking product; or
(2) a covered swap agreement.
END
THOMAS Home | Contact | Accessibility | Legal | USA.gov
