2/8/10 1:02 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 1 of 2http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d108:SN00811:@@@D&summ2=m&|TOM:/bss/d108query.html|
The Library of Congress > THOMAS Home > Bills, Resolutions > Search Results
NEW SEARCH | HOME | HELP | ABOUT SUMMARIES
Print Subscribe Share/Save
S.811 
Title: A bill to support certain housing proposals in the fiscal year 2003 budget for the Federal
Government, including the downpayment assistance initiative under the HOME Investment
Partnership Act, and for other purposes. 
Sponsor: Sen Allard, Wayne [CO] (introduced 4/8/2003)      Cosponsors (9) 
Related Bills: H.R.1276, H.R.1614, H.R.2422, S.381, S.1714 
Latest Major Action: Became Public Law No: 108-186 [GPO: Text, PDF]
SUMMARY AS OF: 
12/16/2003--Public Law.    (There are 2 other summaries)
(This measure has not been amended since it was passed by the Senate on November
24, 2003. The summary of that version is repeated here.)
Title I: Downpayment Assistance - American Dream Downpayment Act - (Sec. 102) Amends
the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act to: (1) authorize the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development to make grants to State and local participating jurisdictions for
downpayment assistance and related home repair to low-income, first-time home buyers; and
(2) limit family assistance to the greater of six percent of the purchase price or $10,000.
Requires a participating jurisdiction to include intended grant uses in its fiscal year
comprehensive housing affordability strategy under such Act.
Sets forth State and local jurisdiction allocation formulas. Permits fund reallocation.
Requires the Comptroller General to report respecting the impact of such grants on a State-by-
State basis.
Terminates grant authority after December 31, 2007. Authorizes specified FY 2004 through 2007
appropriations.
Makes the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970
inapplicable to such assistance.
Title II: Intergenerational Housing Assistance - Living Equitably: Grandparents Aiding
Children and Youth Act of 2003, or LEGACY Act of 2003 - (Sec. 203) Directs the Secretary to:
(1) carry out a five-year pilot program in connection with the supportive housing program to
provide assistance to private nonprofit organizations for expanding the supply of
intergenerational dwelling units for intergenerational families (families headed by an elderly
person); and (2) report on such program's effectiveness. Authorizes specified appropriations.
(Sec. 204) Amends the Department of Housing and Urban Development Act to provide
Department of Housing and Urban Development personnel with related training.
(Sec. 205) Directs the Secretary and the Director of the Bureau of the Census to conduct a joint
study of such families' housing needs.
Title III: Adjustable Rate Single Family Mortgages and Loan Limit Adjustments - (Sec.
301) Revises certain fixed-interest criteria for adjustable rate single-family mortgages which are
insurable by the Federal Housing Administration.
(Sec. 302) FHA Multifamily Loan Limit Adjustment Act of 2003 - Amends the National Housing
Act to increase high-cost area and project-based additional mortgage loan limits for Federal
Housing Administration (FHA)-insured mortgages for: (1) rental housing; (2) cooperative
housing; (3) rehabilitation and neighborhood conservation housing; (4) moderate income and
displaced family housing; (5) housing for the elderly; and (6) condominiums.
Increases: (1) "amount per space" rental housing mortgage limits; and (2) certain cooperative
housing mortgage limits.
Title IV: Hope VI Program Reauthorization - HOPE VI Program Reauthorization and Small
Community Mainstreet Rejuvenation and Housing Act of 2003 - (Sec. 402) Amends the United
States Housing Act of 1937 to revise criteria for HOPE VI (urban revitalization demonstration
program) grants, including addition of criteria regarding tenant displacement, existing tenant
occupancy priority, and timeliness of project completion.
Revises the definition of "severely distressed public housing" to include areas lacking sufficient
affordable housing, transportation, supportive services, economic opportunity, schools, civic and
religious institutions, and public services.
Directs the Comptroller General to report respecting the extent of, and recommended
improvements for, severely distressed elderly and non-elderly disabled public housing.
Authorizes appropriations through FY 2006. Extends program authority through September 30,
2006.
2/8/10 1:02 PMSearch Results - THOMAS (Library of Congress)
Page 2 of 2http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d108:SN00811:@@@D&summ2=m&|TOM:/bss/d108query.html|
(Sec. 403) Includes within the program's purposes assisting smaller communities to provide
affordable low-income housing in connection with main street revitalization or redevelopment
projects.
Authorizes main street grants (maximum $1 million per fiscal year) to smaller communities for
affordable low-income housing in a commercial area in connection with an eligible project.
Requires recipient grant use reports.
Requires that a project be focused on: (1) joint public-private revitalization or redevelopment of
a historic or traditional commercial area; and (2) affordable housing rather than severely
distressed public housing.
Defines "smaller community" as a local government unit that: (1) has a population of 50,000 or
less, and is without a public housing agency; or (2) has a public housing agency that administers
100 or fewer public housing dwelling units.
Defines "affordable housing" as rental or home ownership units that are made available for initial
occupancy subject to the same income and occupant contribution rules as dwelling units in public
housing projects assisted with HOPE VI grants.
Obligates up to five percent of HOPE VI appropriations for smaller community grants.
Title V: Community Development Grants - (Sec. 501) Amends the Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974 to: (1) define "insular area" as each of Guam, the Virgin Islands,
American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands and make such areas
eligible for community development loan guarantees; and (2) obligate specified annual amounts
(exclusive of special purpose grants) for such areas.
THOMAS Home | Contact | Accessibility | Legal | FirstGov
