7/2/09 10:57 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 2http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal45-1403675&type=hitlist&num=0
Document Outline
House Action on the Insurance Bill
Conference Report and Final Passage
Exempting Insurance Companies from Anti-Trust Laws
An article from CQ Almanac 1945
On June 5, 1944, the Supreme Court ruled that insurance is interstate commerce and therefore subject to the
Federal anti-trust laws. Even before this decision was handed down, Washington representatives of the insurance
companies had been advocating a law which would give them specific exemption, and such a bill was passed by the
House in the 78th Congress. However, it died in the Senate.
President Roosevelt endorsed a bill giving some relief to the insurance companies on January 8, 1945. This bill,
proposed by Senators Joseph C. O'Mahoney (D Wyo.) and Carl Hatch (D N.M.) would have preserved State regulation
of the insurance business, but provided that any agreement or act  of “boycott, coercion or intimidation” was
subject to Federal law. The bill also proposed that the insurance companies be granted a moratorium from other
provisions of the anti-trust laws until March 1, 1946.
The Senate Judiciary Committee, after considering the O'Mahoney-Hatch Bill, reported instead a bill drawn by the
committee chairman, Senator Pat McCarran (D Nev.), and Senator Homer Ferguson (R Mich.). It was brought out in
debate that both the O'Mahoney-Hatch Bill and the McCarran-Ferguson  Bill (S 340) were “modifications of a
measure which was originally drafted by the legislative committee of the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners.” It was also explained that State governments and State Insurance Commissioners were anxious
for quick action not only to ensure the continuance of State regulation, but also to make sure that State taxation of
insurance companies would not be invalidated by the Supreme Court decision, which had reversed legal precedents
of many years' standing. The Farm Bureau Federation had sent a letter opposing the bill in the form proposed.
The McCarran-Ferguson  measure specifically reaffirmed the right of States to regulate the insurance business,
and provided a moratorium on application of the Sherman Act  to the insurance business until June 1, 1947, and
of the Clayton Act  until January 1, 1948. Authors of the bill accepted, in modified form, an amendment originally
proposed by Senator Abe Murdock (D Utah) which clarified the language to emphasize that the anti-trust laws would
apply after the dates specified, and although there was some objection, the amendment was accepted on a division.
Senator O'Mahoney supported the bill as amended, and it was passed January 25 by voice vote.
House Action on the Insurance Bill
The House Judiciary Committee made three' changes in the bill as passed by the Senate: (1) the language with
respect to the Sherman and Clayton Acts which had been inserted by the Senate amendment was deleted and the
section restored to the form originally reported in the Senate; (2) the moratorium was extended to January, 1948, for
the Sherman Act  as well as for the Clayton Act ; (3) the phrase agreement or was deleted from the
subsection dealing with coercion, which had read in the Senate version, “Nothing contained in this section shall
render the said Sherman Act  inapplicable to any agreement or act  of boycott, coercion or intimidation.”
Representatives Emmanuel Celler (D N.Y.), Clinton P. Anderson (D N.M.) and Cleveland M. Bailey (D W.Va.) objected
strongly to the changes which had been made, and indicated that they were far from enthusiastic about the bill in
any form. With the assistance of Majority Leader John W. McCormack (D Mass.) they obtained one compromise when
Representative Francis E. Walter (R Pa.), who was handling the bill for the Judiciary Committee, agreed to restore
the agreement or phrase when the bill reached conference with the Senate. This procedure was necessary since
the rule under which the bill was considered in the House did not permit amendment.
Walter declared in his discussion of the bill that it was a compromise substantially as agreed to not only by the State
insurance commissioners, but also by the American Life Convention, the American Mutual Alliance, the Association
of Casualty and Surety Executives, Inland Marine Underwriters' Association, National Association of Mutual
Insurance Agents, National Association of Insurance Agents, National Board of Fire Underwriters' Insurance
Executives Association, the National Association of Insurance Brokers, and the National Association of Casualty and
Insurance Agents, covering all of those in the industry affected by the Supreme Court decision.
At the close of the debate on February 14, the House accepted the changes made in the Senate Bill by its
Judiciary Committee on a division, 152 votes to 59.
 
7/2/09 10:57 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 2http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal45-1403675&type=hitlist&num=0
A motion by Representative John J. Cochran (D Mo.) that the bill be recommitted with instructions to strike out the
section granting immunity to the insurance companies from the Robinson-Patman Antidiscrimination Act , and
the Federal Trade Commission Act  (which would have affected insurance advertising), was defeated on a
division, 171 to 62.
The House version of the bill was then passed by a record vote, 315 to 58 (see p. 108).
Conference Report and Final Passage
The conference report compromising the difference between House and Senate versions of the insurance bill was
nearer to the House version than to the one passed by the Senate. It accepted the moratorium on both Sherman
and Clayton Acts until January, 1948, and limited exemption from the Robinson-Patman and Federal Trade
Commission Acts to the same length of time. The agreement or phrase of the Senate version was restored, but the
Senate language spelling out the future applicability of the anti-trust laws was not.
The House accepted the conference report by voice vote on February 23, without debate.
On February 27 Senator Claude Pepper (D Fla.) objected strenuously to new language in the conference report
which had not been in either Senate or House version. This language specified that after expiration of the
moratorium the anti-trust laws and the Federal Trade Commission Act  would be applicable to the business of
insurance “to the extent that such business is not regulated by State law.”
Pepper contended that this would make the moratorium perpetual, to the extent that State legislatures and insurance
commissioners might validate agreements which would otherwise be in conflict with the antitrust laws. Senator Abe
Murdock (D Utah) partially agreed with him, but argued that the conference report was an improvement on the bill
passed by the House, and that the Senate conferees were unable to obtain further concessions.
After lengthy debate, the Senate agreed to the conference report on February 27, by 68 votes to 8 (see p. 104).
The bill in its final form was approved by the President on March 9. In addition to the three-year moratorium on
application of antitrust and Federal Trade Commission laws against the insurance companies, and the further
language to which Pepper had objected, it reaffirmed the right of the separate States to regulate and tax the
insurance business, but also reasserted the applicability of the anti-trust laws against agreements or acts of boycott,
coercion or intimidation by insurance companies. In addition, it denied the companies any exemption from the
National Labor Relations Act  or the Fair Labor Standards (Wage-Hour) Act.
Document Citation
"Exempting Insurance Companies from Anti-Trust Laws." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal45-
1403675. Originally published in CQ Almanac 1945 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1946).
http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal45-1403675 (accessed July 2, 2009).
Document ID: cqal45-1403675
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal45-1403675
© 1946, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
