8/10/09 1:42 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal50-1377187&type=hitlist&num=0
Document Outline
Summary and Background
Senate
House
Conference
Law Enacted
Lobbying
Housing Act of 1950
An article from CQ Almanac 1950
S 2246 —P. L 475
Summary and Background
Congress completed action in 1950 on a housing bill ( S 2246 ) designed to aid middle-income groups.
Provisions authorizing special aid for cooperative and non-profit housing projects were dropped, however, from both
the House and Senate versions of the bill. As finally approved, the measure contained a variety of amendments to
the National Housing Act. FHA and FNMA money was increased, and new types of loan guarantees and direct
loans for housing were included.
During the first session of the 81st Congress the House approved a bill (HR 6070) to amend the National Housing
Act (CQ Almanac, Vol. V, p. 286). The bill extended the authority of the Federal Housing Administration to
guarantee certain housing loans; increased the money available for such guarantees; increased money available to
the Federal National Mortgage Association; and authorized the Reconstruction Finance Corporation to make special
housing loans.
The House-approved bill did not see Senate action in 1949, but a similar Senate bill ( S 2246 ) was approved by
the Senate Banking Committee. The Senate bill contained a $1 billion authorization for direct loans to cooperative
housing projects—a provision rejected by the House. There was no further action on either of the bills in 1949.
Expiring provisions of the old Act were extended by an emergency resolution, however.
When the second session of the 81st Congress opened, the chairmen of both the House and Senate Banking
Committees prepared bills to take the place of the ones considered during the first session. The new measures
picked up most of the provisions of the old bills, but featured a cooperative housing loan program, to be financed
through a new government corporation backed by private investors.
The Senate committee reported its new bill under the old number after considerable alteration. The House bill was
reported under a new number (HR 7402). The Senate measure was approved after the co-op loan provision was
dropped on a 43-38 roll call vote. The House paralleled Senate action, cutting out the co-op section on roll call
218-155. Final House approval came on a 361-10 roll-call vote. After compromise of the two versions, the middle-
income housing bill was finally approved by both houses by voice votes and sent on to the President. It became
Public Law 475.
Provisions
Money authorized (in millions):
FHA mortgage insurance $2,250
FHA mortgage insurance for suburban homes 250
FHA mortgage insurance for large rental  projects 500
FNMA mortgage purchase 250
Veterans direct loans 150
College direct loans 300
Total $3,700
Other major provisions of the final compromise were:
 
8/10/09 1:42 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal50-1377187&type=hitlist&num=0
FHA mortgage insurance for repair and improvement extended until July 1, 1955.
Outstanding FHA loans limited to $1.25 billion at any one time.
Suburban home mortgage insurance limited to $5,600.
FHA mortgage on two-family structure limited to $16,000; on three-family structure to $20,500; on four-family
structure to $25,000.
FHA mortgage insurance on two-bedroom one-family home limited to $6,650 plus $950 for additional bedrooms.
FHA mortgage insurance on multi-family structures limited to 90 per cent of the first $7,000 and 60 per cent of value
in excess of $7,000 up to $10,000 per family unit.
FHA mortgage insurance on cooperative housing projects limited to $5 million for any one project, $8,100 per family
unit or $1,800 per room, but not to exceed 90 per cent of replacement costs (could be raised to 95 per cent if
owners are veterans).
Federal National Mortgage Association authorized to charge a fee of 1 per cent of amount of mortgage purchased.
Farm home mortgages insured by the VA exempted from present provision that FNMA cannot purchase for any one
lender more than 50 per cent of his loan portfolio insured after April 30, 1948.
FHA insurance applications from special rental housing projects made under a program which expired were re-
authorized if they had been received by March 1, 1950.
Disposal of low-cost veterans housing built under the Lanham Act made easier.
Direct loans authorized to veterans who cannot get a private loan.
Forty-year loans at a varying interest rate authorized for housing projects at educational institutions.
GI bill loan maturity extended from 25 to 30 years.
Senate
Committee
On Jan. 12, 1950 Chairman Burnet R. Maybank (D S . C.) of the Senate Banking Committee presented to his
Housing Subcommittee 12 amendments which he proposed to add to S 2246  (approved by the Committee in
1949). In effect, the amendments would rewrite the bill to do the following:
1. Provide technical assistance and advice to co-op and non-profit groups authorized to provide housing.
2. Establish, a corporation to make $1.7 billion worth of long-term mortgage loans at low interest to housing cooperatives.
3. Secure private capital for the corporation by issuing government-backed debentures.
4. Liberalize FHA insurance under existing housing act to increase the value of housing units eligible for insurance and
increase the per cent of the cost that may be insured.
5. Add $1.25 billion to the FHA mortgage insurance fund.
6. Make home modernization and repair loan provisions permanent.
7. Encourage construction of inexpensive rental units for families with children.
Hearings Opened
The Subcommittee on Housing opened hearings on the Maybank amendments Jan. 12. Raymond M. Foley, housing
and home finance administrator, the first witness, said the Administration bill called for aid in construction of homes
to rent for $45 to $73 a month. These units would serve middle-income families, he said, which have cash incomes
of from $2,700 to $4,400 a year.
Subcommittee attention soon turned to the interest rate of the proposed cooperative loans. The Maybank
amendments did not specify an interest rate, but estimates of three per cent were offered.
Paul H. Douglas (D Ill.) wanted to know how that rate could be justified when GI and FHA loans went at 4 and 4 1/2
per cent. Foley said he would bring in figures backing up the proposed interest rate.
Subcommittee Chairman John Sparkman (D Ala.), author of the original bill ( S 2246 ), suggested Jan. 18 that the
top interest rate for all government-insured mortgage loans be set at four per cent. Sparkman said Foley would
agree to that figure. When asked by Maybank whether a GI loan interest rate raise was being considered, Foley
declined to answer. Any answer, he said, would influence the whole home financing picture. Other witnesses and
8/10/09 1:42 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal50-1377187&type=hitlist&num=0
declined to answer. Any answer, he said, would influence the whole home financing picture. Other witnesses and
their testimony included:
Horace Russell, general counsel for the United States Savings and Loan League, told the committee that the co-op
loan plan “is not only pure socialism to the extent of two billion dollars, the scheme is designed and intended to
mislead.” Sparkman charged that Russell' s  statement was “unfair and not correct” and said that Senators who
wrote the bill would not “lead the people down the road to socialism.”
Oscar R. Dreutz, National Savings and Loan League, said that private lenders were providing all the capital needed.
UAW Supports Measure
Walter Reuther, United Auto Workers, supported the bill because “it permits the people to build homes and does not
permit the speculator to milk the people of America.”
William Reckman, American Bankers Association, said the proposed program was not needed. “Evidence of
overbuilding is already beginning to appear in various localities around the country,” he said. “It should not be more
than a year or two before housing supply and demand are balanced.”
Murray Lincoln, Cooperative League of the U. S .A., told the Committee he favored the program in general, but
proposed a separate cooperative housing agency to administer the plan. The bill called for creation of a division in
the Housing and Home Finance Agency.
NAREB Opposes Bill
John C. Thompson, National Association of Real Estate Boards, testified before the committee on the bill Feb. 7. He
said he opposed the bill “because it provides for basically direct mortgage lending by the government … it is class
legislation … it is discriminatory in many ways.”
David L. Krooth, National Housing Conference, supported the bill. Persons in the middle-income bracket, he said,
“can't afford new housing that is being built for rent or sale, nor is there an adequate supply of existing houses
available to them at prices they can afford. Therefore these families must look to additional production of housing to
meet their needs.”
Group Approval
The bill was approved by the subcommittee Feb. 7 by a 6-1 vote. Approviug the measure were Sparkman, Ralph E.
Flanders (R Vt.), Irving Ives (R N.Y.), Maybank, Douglas and Russell Long (D La.). John Bricker (R Ohio) voted “No”.
The full committee, however, voted Feb. 9 to postpone action on the bill for two weeks. Maybank said the delay was
to allow the committee to examine possible inflationary effects of the bill. He said the Federal Reserve Board would
present its views on housing and inflation Feb. 16.
On the decision to delay final approval by the whole committee, the vote was 7-6. Voting to defer action were
Charles W. Tobey (R N.H.), who made the motion; J. William Fulbright (D Ark.), A. Willis Robertson (D Va.), Homer
Capehart (R Ind.), Flanders, Bricker and Ives. Against the motion were Glen Taylor (D Idaho), Sparkman, J. Allen
Frear (D Del.), Douglas, Long and Maybank.
More Study
In the interim a basic overhauling of the Administration middle-income cooperative housing proposal was
recommended by the Federal Reserve Board when Thomas B. McCabe, board chairman, testified before the
Banking Committee Feb. 16.
McCabe told Senators that the disputed program should be given “a full and fair trial on an experimental basis.” He
wanted financing of the program to be on the Federal Housing Administration principle of government insurance of
home loans by private banks. The bill called for establishing a new government lending institution, a National
Mortgage Corporation of Housing Cooperatives.
The Federal Reserve Board chairman expressed “concern” over financial terms of the bill — allowing amortization
terms of 50 to 60 years. He also was concerned over the low interest rates of the Administration bill, which would
grant loans at 3 to 3 1/2 per cent interest over 50 years in most cases, as compared with the FHA program of 4 1/2
per cent interest and repayment of loans generally in 25 years.
The Reserve Board was reporting only on the economic and financial aspects of the bill, he emphasized. In
response to questioning by Sen. Fulbright, McCabe said the Board is opposed to the bill “as written.”
Sen. Bricker, a member of the Committee, said in a letter to certain members of the Committee that possibility of
political favoritism is “‘rampant” in the bill. Sparkman, author of the measure, denied Bricker' s  assertion. Bricker
said in his letter cooperatives should be encouraged in the housing field, but he did not like the Administration' s
way of going about it.
The Banking Committee voted Feb. 22 against calling Marriner S . Eccles, Federal Reserve Board member, to
testify on the entire federal housing program. The motion to call Eccles was made by Fulbright and was defeated by
a 7-6 vote after heated debate within the committee. Chairman Maybank called the Committee into closed session
8/10/09 1:42 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal50-1377187&type=hitlist&num=0
a 7-6 vote after heated debate within the committee. Chairman Maybank called the Committee into closed session
that same day to consider a substitute measure favored by Sens. Tobey and Ives.
The committee voted down the Tobey - Ives substitute bill 6-7 after the National Housing Conference criticized it as
“no middle - income housing bill at all”. For the substitute were Ives, Tobey, Homer Capehart (R Ind.), John W. Bricker
(R Ohio), J. William Fulbright (D Ark.) and A. Willis Robertson (D Va.). Against it were Burnet R. Maybank (D S . C),
Glen H. Taylor (D Idaho), John J. Sparkman (D Ala.), J. Allen Frear Jr. (D Del.), Paul H. Douglas (D Ill.), Russell B. Long
(D La.) and Ralph Flanders (R Vt.).
The Banking Committee approved the rewritten middle - income housing bill ( S 2246 ) by a 9-4 vote Feb. 23.
As reported, the Banking group' s  bill had been scaled down from the $6 billion first asked by the Administration.
Most of the controversy in the group had centered over a $2 billion request for direct loans for cooperative housing.
The Committee cut the figure to $1,125 billion. Administration of the co-op program would be carried out by the
Housing and Home Finance Agency, rather than a new co-op housing administration as called for in the original bill.
Loans would go at about 3 1-4 per cent interest, according to Sparkman, author of the original bill.
Other provisions authorize $2 billion for repair and modernization of low-cost housing and for construction of low -
cost housing for sale and rent; $150 million for veterans housing; $300 million for college housing; and $25 million
for distribution of prefabricated housing. Of the total voted, $3.6 billion is new authorization. The bill amends the
National Housing Act and extends to July 1, 1952 the expiration date of certain provisions.
On final vote for the bill, the lineup was: For the bill, Maybank, Taylor, Sparkman, Frear, Douglas, Long, Tobey,
Flanders and Ives; against the bill, Fulbright, Robertson, Bricker and Capehart. Bricker, Capehart and Robertson
signed a minority report.
European Report
Meanwhile, a report on cooperative housing in Europe was submitted by members of the Banking and Currency
Committee Jan. 31. Five members had made a survey of co-op housing in Norway, Sweden, Denmark,
Netherlands, France, Switzerland and Great Britain last year. On the trip were Maybank, chairman, Sparkman,
Frear, Flanders and Bricker.
The report made no recommendations, but did praise the results of European cooperative housing. The following
points were mentioned:
1. In almost every country the government has tried to keep rents under 20 per cent of family income.
2. Long amortization periods are the rule — up to 40 to 100 years.
3. Low interest is asked — as little as 1 per cent.
4. Subsidies, direct and indirect, have been necessary to keep rents low.
5. Housing units, even those 20-30 years old, are “modern in design and lay-out.”
6. Housing research is given considerable attention.
The report concluded: “One of the most remarkable things about the whole story of housing in Europe today is that
despite all the government subsidies, housing aids and advantages afforded to co-operatives and municipal housing
agencies, private housing, assisted only in a small way and in some cases not at all, continues to make progress;
and in most countries during the last year the volume of private construction has increased sharply.”
Debate
The Senate passed its housing bill March 15 after striking out provisions for special insurance on loans to build
cooperative housing. Final passage was on voice vote. As approved, the bill provided the following:
$1,750 million for mortgage insurance on home repair and construction; $400 million to insure multi-unit construction
loans applied for prior to Feb. 1. This program had expired; $300 million for housing construction for educational
institutions; $150 million for loans to veterans in areas where private financing is unavailable; transfer to local
government of war housing projects; $250 million for suburban home mortgage insurance.
The bill presented to the Senate contained an Administration-backed $1 billion program of loan insurance for
cooperative housing projects and most of the floor debate centered about this provision. It was removed by an
amendment by Bricker on a roll call vote 43-38. Opposition came from Republicans and Southern Democrats. They
claimed the bill would allow long-term co-op loans at about 3 1/4 per cent interest while veterans, under other
programs had to pay 4 to 4 1/2 per cent over shorter periods. This, they said, was discrimination.
Chairman Maybank of the Banking Committee, which reported the bill, offered a compromise amendment fixing a 4
per cent rate for co-op loans, but the amendment was not brought to a vote.
Principal debaters and their arguments were:
8/10/09 1:42 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal50-1377187&type=hitlist&num=0
Maybank — “… those who will use (the co-op loan insurance) the most will be war veterans who have returned
home and are now married and are living with their families but who Unfortunately have no adequate place to live or
which they themselves own. Under the bill they will be able to have two-room and/or three-room apartments in
cooperatives, and will be able to raise their families in a way a good American is entitled to live.” He introduced
statements by American Legion and VFW officials backing the co-op program.
Fulbright — “I think the influence of this legislation, particularly, (the co-op loan insurance program) would be to
make for much greater instability in the entire industry than there would be if we were to let it go along under the
existing legislation.”
Bricker — “It is unsound, it is fallacious, and I do not think the Senate intends to put its stamp of approval upon this
kind of experimentation at this time when we are already building 1,000,000 homes, and one-half of them are under
insurance provided in the VA and in the FHA programs.”
Hubert H. Humphrey (D Minn.) — “There is a clear-cut need for more middle-income housing. The pending measure
encourages the building industry and the lending industry to continue to meet the housing needs of middle-income
groups or middle-income families. The bill in no way socializes housing … the bill in fact underwrites individual
home ownership and promotes an interest on the part of the middle-income group in maintaining, owning and using
their own housing facilities.”
Amendments Agreed To
Maybank — Authorize another $400 million for large-scale rental projects under a program which expired March 1.
Loans applied for by Jan. 31 would be insured. Voice vote.
Bricker — Remove co-op housing section from bill. Roll call 43-38.
Long — Cut from 90 to 85 per cent the maximum insurance on the first $7,100 of each unit of multi-unit projects and
raise from 60 to 70 per cent the maximum on all units over $7,100. Roll call 61-21.
Long — Lower from $8,100 to $8,050 the maximum value per unit to be eligible for certain insurance. Voice.
Frear — Allow Commissioner to increase value limitation in case of additional units on the same property. Division.
Maybank — Exempt GI Sill loans from certain provisions of the act. Voice.
Sparkman — Exempt individual mortgages covering individual units in cooperative projects from certain restrictions.
Roll call 59-21.
Fulbright — Remove section providing $25 million for distribution of prefabricated housing. Voice.
Amendments Rejected
Kenneth S . Wherry (R Neb.) — Extend date of first Maybank amendment (see above) from Jan. 31 to Feb. 15.
Roll call 26–57.
Ives — Provide loan insurance for co-ops directly under FHA. Roll call 14–66.
Joseph McCarthy (R Wis.) — Extend time for repayment of veterans' loans from 25 to 30 years. Voice.
Harry P. Cain (R Wash.) — Remove veterans' loans section. Voice.
Cain — Prevent use of reserve accounts for transfers of permanent war housing for low-rent use and eliminate
authority to convey certain housing projects to local public housing agencies. Voice.
Ives — Make veterans' provisions of the bill effective as of Jan. 1, 1951, instead of 180 days after signing of bill.
Voice.
House
Committee
Chairman Brent Spence (D Ky.) of the House Banking Committee introduced two housing bills when the session
opened. HR 6618, introduced Jan. 6, called for a cooperative housing program similar to the one originally proposed
by Sen. Maybank. Brent' s  second measure, HR 6742, introduced Jan. 12, contained amendments relating to
the FHA mortgage insurance programs. It paralleled ground covered by the other original Maybank proposals.
The House Banking Committee opened hearings on the two Spence bills Jan. 30 with Raymond M. Foley, Housing
and Home Finance Administrator, testifying. He supported both bills.
Foley said that private industry is not supplying sufficient low-income housing. Arguments to the contrary, he said,
are based on “a fallacy resulting from the misuse of national averages”
“The fallacy…is that it balances off the low-cost homes…where prevailing construction costs and income levels are
8/10/09 1:42 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal50-1377187&type=hitlist&num=0
“The fallacy…is that it balances off the low-cost homes…where prevailing construction costs and income levels are
lower…and the climate is milder, against the housing needs of middle-income families in the higher cost-areas such
as New York, Chicago, or Detroit,” Foley said.
Present middle-income units, he said, are too small for families with children. Under the co-op housing bill, Foley
said, a 4 1/2-room unit would rent for $64.67 a month, compared with $90.32 for such a privately-built unit financed
with now-available government aid.
Franklin D. Richards, commissioner, Federal Housing Administration, told the committee that the bills provide special
aids to families with children. Discrimination against them is specifically prohibited, he said.
AFL president William Green asserted that private builders “have failed to meet two simple housing tests: quantity
and quality.” He favored the Administration' s  middle-income housing program.
Rt. Rev. Msgr. John O'Grady, secretary of the National Conference of Catholic Charities, told the Committee he
regards cooperatives as “one of the strongest bulwarks against a totalitarian or a socialist state.” Private builders
have been covering only a “part of the middle-income field,” he said.
The two Spence bills were combined into one measure (HR 7402), also by Spence, Feb. 22 and reported favorably
by 11-4 vote Feb. 23. The House Rules Committee approved the bill March 8 and sent it on to the House.
Debate
The House paralleled the action of the Senate in passing S 2246  on March 22. As did the Senate, the House
removed all special aid provisions for cooperative housing projects but increased money available for other aid
programs now in existence. Final approval came on a roll call vote 361-10.
The House removed a $2 billion aid to co-ops section on roll call 218-155 after opponents said the provision was
“socialistic” and also “discriminatory” in its low interest rate. On passage the House bill (HR 7402) was given the
Senate bill number ( S 2246 ).
House debate also followed the pattern of the Senate' s . Most controversy centered around the co-op direct aid
provision — the money to be lent to cooperative housing projects through a special government corporation.
Critics said the co-op loans would go at about 3 1/2 per cent interest while others were paying 4 and 4 1/2 per cent
interest on government-insured loans. Joseph Martin (R Mass.) said the provision “is nothing but another brick in
the structure of socialism.”
Eugene J. McCarthy (D Minn.) supported the co-op loans saying:
“First. It provides a means whereby middle-income families can secure adequate housing.
“Second. It involves no subsidy and a minimum of government interference.
“Third. It will stabilize the construction industry as it involves labor, building materials and investment.
“Fourth. Fundamentally it proposes self-help.”
Banking Committee Chairman Spence tried to compromise by backing an amendment fixing the co-op loan interest
rate at 4 per cent and another cutting the funds for the loans from $2 billion to $500 million. Both amendments,
sponsored by Wright Patman (D Tex.), were rejected.
Then Jesse P. Wolcott (R Mich.) moved to strike out the entire co-op loan section. His motion carried first on a
standing vote 174-122 and then on roll call 218-155. Eighty-one Democrats voted to kill co-op loans; 141 voted to
keep them. Republicans opposed the loan 137-13.
Other provisions were accepted with little controversy, all but 10 Representatives approving the final bill.
Housing aid money voted by the House (in millions):
FHA mortgage insurance $2,750
FNMA mortgages 750
Multiple dwellings 600
Amendments Agreed To
Wolcott — Strike out section providing special aid to cooperative housing projects. Division (standing) vote 174-122;
roll call 218-155.
Spence — Authorize $600 million for mortgage insurance for multi - unit apartments under an expired program,
provided the applications for insurance were filed by March 1, 1950. (This amendment had been approved by the
committee after it reported the bill.) Voice.
Spence — Increase Federal National Mortgage Association funds by $750 million. (This amendment had been
approved by the committee after it reported the bill.) Voice.
8/10/09 1:42 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal50-1377187&type=hitlist&num=0
Chet Holifield (D Calif.) — Provide that no home financed under the act could be sold at terms less favorable to the
purchaser than those contained in the original mortgage. Voice.
Ralph A. Gamble (R N. Y.) — Exempt GI bill home loans from certain provisions of the act. Voice.
Wolcott — Strike out section giving the President power to reduce federal housing aid. Voice.
Spence — Increase amortization period on GI loans from 25 to 30 years. Voice.
Spence — Provide for sale of certain wartime temporary housing units. (This amendment had been approved by the
committee after it reported the bill.) Voice.
Amendments Rejected
Patman — Fix co-op loan interest at four per cent. Division 81–110; tellers 115–126.
Patman — Cut co-op loan money from $2 billion to $500 million. Division 120–144; tellers 130–157.
Frank M. Karsten (D Mo.) — Increase from 60 to 75 per cent the amount of the value of a home that can be
mortgaged under the act; increase from $7,000 to $8,000 the value of the home upon which the percentage may be
based (in effect, cutting down-payments from about 20 to 10 per cent of an $8,000 house). Voice.
Vito Marcantonio (ALP N. Y.) — Ban discrimination by reason of race, color (creed or national origin in insured
housing units. Division 101–134; tellers 111–139.
Conference
The House-Senate conferees filed a report April 5 recommending compromise where House and Senate figures
differed. The original bills and the final compromise called for the following authorizations (in millions):
 Original Senate Original House Final Compromise
FHA mortgage insurance $1,750 $2,750 $2,250
FHA mortgage insurance for suburban homes 250 0 250
FHA mortgage insurance for large rental  projects 400 600 500
FNMA mortgage purchase 0 750 250
Veterans direct loans 150 0 150
College direct loans 300 0 300
Totals $2,850 $4,100 $3,700
Although the original House version of the bill did not contain three of the authorizations in the final bill, similar
provisions appeared in a bill (HR 6070) passed by the House the first session but not acted on in the Senate. In HR
6070 was money for FHA mortgage insurance for suburban homes and an authorization for RFC loans for housing
at colleges.
House approval came on voice vote the following day without opposition. The Senate agreed to the bill April 10 —
also without controversy and on voice vote.
The compromise version, according to Sen. Maybank, chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, “puts great
emphasis on low-cost housing by extending liberal terms to houses which will sell from $5,000 to $7,000. It also
encourages the construction of larger size houses with three and four bedrooms by permitting higher mortgage
ceilings on them.”
Law Enacted
President Truman signed the legislation April 20 without comment. AFL President William Green, however,
condemned the new law, pointing out the deletion of cooperative housing loan provisions. The bill became Public
Law 475.
Lobbying
Lobbying on housing bills started during the first session of the 81st Congress and continued into the second
session. In 1950, pressure was directed toward the proposed low-interest, government - sponsored financing for
housing cooperatives.
Groups representing the home building and banking industries said the aid to co-ops would amount to a “subsidy”,
would increase the national debt, “socialize” lending, and, further, wasn't necessary in order to provide for the
“middle-income” housing market.
8/10/09 1:42 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal50-1377187&type=hitlist&num=0
Labor groups and other backers of the Administration sponsored middle income measure said building and lending
concerns hadn't been taking care of the housing shortage. Other charges were: New homes available to middle-
income buyers are poor in “quality and quantity”; that “speculators” and home builders are profiting too much, at the
expense of the nation' s  housing.
Housing Stands
Seminar of the Convocation on the City Church — Resolved “that if at present adequate housing cannot be
provided by private resources, it becomes the responsibility of Federal, State and local governments to make proper
provision.” Convocation in Columbus, Ohio, drew more than 400 delegates representing 32 Protestant
denominations.
New Jersey State Federation of Labor — Endorsed Administration cooperative housing proposal as “sound and a
definite contribution in the direction of better and more permanent housing”. It denounced “reactionary tactics” of
opponents of the legislation.
Eastern Cooperatives, Inc. — Termed the co-op housing bill “the greatest boost U. S . co-ops have had for a
long time. Getting together to build homes, people can also get together to buy insurance, groceries, oil, credit
facilities, clothing, and a dozen other necessities the co-op way.” The endorsement, in The Co-operator, referred to
HR 6618 and S 2246 , with the Maybank cooperative housing amendment.
National Conference on Middle Income Housing — Initiated by AFL, CIO, and IAM consisted of some 30 member
organizations at time of its meeting in Washington, Feb. 23, 24. Delegates from 30 other groups attended, also
supporting cooperative housing legislation. Spokesmen for labor, veterans, church, consumer, women' s  and
minority race organizations attended. Sixteen states were represented.
Conference heard message from President Truman endorsing the middle-income housing bill as a help in the “still
serious shortage” of homes, a yardstick for building operations, and a boost to dispersion of industry.
Delegates visited Congressmen in support of co-op housing. Lawmakers received letters containing a conference
resolution advocating the home building legislation.
National organizations sponsoring the conference:
American Association of Social Workers
American Home Economics Association
American Council on Human Rights
American Public Welfare Association
American Veterans Committee
Amvets
American Federation of Labor
American Council on Education
Congress of Industrial Organizations
Council of Social Action, Congregational Churches of the U. S . A.
Catholic War Veterans
Cooperative League of the U. S . A.
Department of Christian Social Relations, United Council of Church Women
Department of Christian Social Relations, Women' s  Division, Methodist Church
Federal Council of the Churches of Christ in America
International Association of Machinists
Jewish War Veterans
National Association for the Advancement of Colored People
National Association of Colored Women, Inc.
National Association of Consumers
National Conference of Catholic Charities
8/10/09 1:42 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 9 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal50-1377187&type=hitlist&num=0
National Council of Catholic Women
National Council of Jewish Women
National Council of Negro Women
National Federation of Settlements
National Council of Women of the U. S . A.
National Women' s  Trade Union League
National Housing Conference
National Farmers Union
Social Action Department, National Catholic Welfare Conference
National Cooperative Mutual Housing Association
Other groups on record for co-op housing legislation:
American Legion
Veterans of Foreign Wars
Disabled American Veterans
National Housing Conference
Liberal Party of New York State
Labor Prepares Arguments
How advocates of co-op housing financed under proposed legislation could defend their case against two
arguments of opponents was outlined in League Reporter of AFL Labor' s  League for Political Education.
1. To the assertion the proposal is inflationary the Reporter, said: “If it' s  inflationary to encourage the construction of
about 250,000 homes at prices workers can afford (which the legislation contemplates), isn't it also inflationary to spend
more than $1 billion (which the Federal Government plans to do in the next fiscal year) to aid private housing?”
2. Regarding the comment of Sen. John W. Bricker (R Ohio) that the bill contains “‘possibilities for political favoritism,” the
Reporter said. “As to Bricker' s  remark, the best comment is a belly laugh….”
The Reporter urged readers to write Congressmen about the housing bill because it “is in danger”. The AFL paper
also suggested unionists tell Congressmen “the interests of millions of U. S . workers are more important to the
welfare of America than the wishes of a handful of grasping mortgage bankers and real estate lobbyists”. The labor
publication said Sens. J. William Fulbright (D Ark.), Homer Capehart (R Ind.), Bricker and other “anti-co-op Senators”
want “more time for the real estate lobby to work up its smear campaign against the program”.
Criticism of Bill
Opponents of the middle — income housing proposals sent Congressmen lists of objections and in some cases
lengthy analyses of the bills and their economic effects.
Chamber of Commerce of the United States cited these “adverse effects upon home-owners, savers and taxpayers”
if the proposals become law:
1. Disadvantage to the “self-supporting home buyer” whose purchase is financed under terms more costly than those
proposed for cooperative housing.
2. Threat to financial stability of “thousands” of new rental projects.
3. Inflationary effect.
4. Increase federal debt “in effect” by $2 billion.
5. “Unfair competition” to present lending concerns.
Fort Worth Chamber of Commerce — Resolved HR 6618 and S 2246  should be defeated as they would
provide “government housing for middle-income families”.
“It is highly improbable that the upper one-third can long carry a tax burden adequate to subsidize the other two-
thirds of the homeowners of America,” said the Texas organization.
8/10/09 1:42 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 10 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal50-1377187&type=hitlist&num=0
Besides “subsidizing” on terms with which “private industry cannot compete”, the bill would “create a new Federal
bureau with its thousands of employees” and would deprive local governments of taxes.
“The present situation justifies less, not more housing legislation,” said the Chamber. “Given an opportunity, private
capital and private industry will house our people.”
Loan League Stand
United States Savings and Loan League — Called for defeat of the cooperative housing amendment. to S 2246
because: (1) It amounts to “government housing”, (2) creates a new bureau, (3) involves “subsidy” for middle income
people, (4) sets up “uneconomic” loan terms which “no private lender can meet”, (5) provides “government
competition, controlled from Washington … which is obnoxious locally”, (6) would deter private building and
financing, (7) is “extremely inflationary” (8) provides “concealed, unchecked federal expenditure” in the issuance of
government-guaranteed obligations up to $2 billion.
Mortgage Bankers Association of America — In a 15 page analysis of housing credit problems, said the special
postwar housing problems “have been eased due to the combined efforts of government and industry.” The total
housing demand “has by no means been met”, said MBAA, but its characteristics are now more “normal” than
“special”, and any solution should be a long-range one.
Objective of 1950 housing legislation should be “dependable, long term methods of finance” and a turning away from
“a debilitating and unobtainable dependence on government,” said MBAA.
The bankers group thus urged “restoring the responsibilities of private investment” instead of “adopting the more
generous government aids and supports such as the direct loans to cooperatives and to individual veterans that are
advocated in pending legislation”.
MBAA listed these “remedies for the current problems”:
1. Remove “disabilities” affecting Veterans Administration housing loans by standardizing VA and Federal Housing
Administration loan procedures and equalizing FHA and VA interest.
2. Create authority for private national mortgage association.
3. Limit operation of the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae). FNMA “as now constituted is a grave
obstacle to the creation of a sound, long range system of mortgage finance”, stated the MBAA report.
Mortgage Firm Planned
MBAA announced plans for a private mortgage purchasing corporation to buy GI and FHA home loans. It would
enter the mortgage buying field now handled by FNMA.
R. O. Deming, Jr., MBAA president, said success of the plan would counteract “the threat of the Government
becoming a direct lender in this field, a development which would mean the beginning of socialization of the
industry”.
Legislative changes necessary to put the plan into effect, Deming said, included authorization of the lending
corporation to have a capital stock of at least $2 million and to issue notes up to 40 times the capital stock and
surplus.
“There is ample mortgage money in the country to meet all legitimate needs and the industry can supply it provided
certain handicaps are removed and other changes made,” Deming said.
NAHB Cites Stand
National Association of Home Builders of the United States — In Washington Letter quoted Rodney M. Lockwood,
NAHB president, “We are not, and have never, been, opposed to housing cooperatives as such … groups of
individuals acting cooperatively to do that which they could do individually…However, such group' s  as a class
should not be provided, directly or indirectly, with government subsidies or special financing or tax devices available
only to them and not freely available to all other citizens or forms of business enterprise.”
Further, Lockwood said, the cooperative financing proposal contains “highly undesirable, and we believe dangerous,
proposals which should not be confused with the legitimate encouragement of cooperatives”. The proposal puts the
government into the mortgage lending business, would conflict with FHA and VA housing programs, and “is not
necessary to house the middle income third”, asserted Lockwood.
American Bankers Association — Opposed the bill providing special financing for cooperatives. William A. Reckman,
representing ABA, told the Senate Banking subcommittee the bill “seeks to favor special groups of borrowers”.
NAHB president, Rodney M. Lockwood, called for a Congressional investigation of “the success or failure of housing
cooperatives throughout the country before voting on a spending measure to subsidize cooperative housing.”
Cooperatives in the United States “generally failed miserably” to do as good a job of providing housing as privately
sponsored projects, Lockwood claimed. In “virtually every case, if the books were examined, coop housing would be
8/10/09 1:42 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 11 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal50-1377187&type=hitlist&num=0
sponsored projects, Lockwood claimed. In “virtually every case, if the books were examined, coop housing would be
shown up as a poor risk” he said.
European Report Reaction
While five members of the Banking and Currency Committee praised the results of co-op housing in Norway,
Sweden, Denmark, Netherlands, France, Switzerland and Great Britain (See P 160), building industry spokesmen
expressed a different point of view.
Mortgage Bankers Association of America released a report by Samuel E. Neel on co-op housing in Sweden, which
said, “Its (co-op housing) financing is so complicated with special interest rates and subsidies that a measure of its
economic advantage, if any, could hardly be measured in competition with unaided private enterprise building.”
National Association of Home Builders in Home Building News said, “The United States has no need to resort to the
socialistic patterns which numerous European countries have turned to in their desperate need for housing.”
Ideological Angles
Aside from economic factors of the cooperative housing phase of proposed legislation, ideological considerations
brought both objections and endorsements.
As National Association of Home Builders of the United States saw it, in Washington Letter, “Both the House and
Senate are moving along in a leisurely fashion on housing legislation but underneath the surface a bitter ideological
struggle takes place. Proposals for collectivist cooperatives and the solution of the FNMA (Federal National
Mortgage Association) problem, are the cause of bitter debate and uncertainty of action.”
Further, the Letter, sent to lawmakers, asserted “… the current clamor to adopt the semi-socialized methods of
other countries can only be interpreted as an effort to charge our entire political economy by starting with changing
our housing economy”
On the other hand, David L. Krooth of the National Housing Conference, Inc., told the House Banking and Currency
Committee the Administration measure combines “good old American principles of initiative and self-help, with the
economies of large-scale development and better private financing”.
Sen. Ralph E. Flanders (R Vt.) told the Senate Banking and Currency Committee, “… I have felt that the cooperative
movement was the American alternative to the individual private business setup of our industry and distributing
organizations, and all the rest, rather than straight socialism or communism or any other form of it. It is the
alternative, it is the American alternative.”
“Squeeze Play” Claimed
NAREB Headlines saw a “familiar squeeze play” shaping up in strategy of proponents of co-op housing aid to get
Congressional approval of the middle income housing bill. The realtors' publication said Sen. John J. Sparkman (D
Ala.), pushing the Administration housing plan, is opposed to temporary extension of FHA laws.
Thus, “Proponents will oppose any attempt to separate the sugarcoating of FHA expansion provisions from the over-
all housing bill with its bitter pill of government lending, being fought by the industry,” contended NAREB.
“Thus the advocates hope to dull the opposition and gain their goal. The current issue of The CIO News tips the
hand bluntly, ‘Administration supporters had hoped to report the bill in one piece, perhaps thus rousing extra support
for the co-op' section.’”
Ralph W. Gwinn, in a “Paul Revere Message” of Committee for Constitutional Government, said it was a “sorry
example” when representatives of “great American banking houses said they had ‘no opinions' and ‘no convictions’
about socialized government housing.” In their statements during Congress’ first session banking spokesmen “by
negative suggestion” favored “socialized housing instead of free housing,” Gwinn said.
“So, Wall Street has helped to kill private property rights and free enterprise in housing — the only possible source
of adequate housing. Now at the conventions, they memorialize about free enterprise but don't back up their words.
“I believe they have been anaesthetized by government propaganda,” Gwinn continued.
Growth of Lobby
Growth of a real estate lobby was summed up in NAHB' s 363rd Washington Letter since 1942. “The history of
your Local and National Associations is portrayed through the constant and difficult struggle with priorities,
allocations, the ridiculous Wyatt period, and the challenging problems of producing post-war homes for veterans,”
wrote Frank W. Cortright of NAHB.
“We have grown, step by step, from a small band of men with a dream of an organized industry to one of the
largest and most powerful organizations of its type in the political arena of Washington — the work of hundreds of
builders who have contributed unselfishly of their time and energy. NAHB stands today as the answer of an aroused
industry faced with criticism, controls and Federal competition.
“… Only through our powerfully organized activity and constant contact with other segments of the industry, the
Congress and with the agencies of government can we survive as a free industry.”
8/10/09 1:42 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 12 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal50-1377187&type=hitlist&num=0
Document Citation
"Housing Act of 1950." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal50-1377187. Originally published in CQ
Almanac 1950 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1951). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal50-1377187 (accessed
August 10, 2009).
Document ID: cqal50-1377187
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal50-1377187
© 1951, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
