7/20/09 3:40 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal51-1406421&type=hitlist&num=7
Military and Veterans' Education,
Employment and Housing
1989 Veterans’ Bill Excludes Agent
Orange Provisions
1988 Veterans Affairs (VA) Housing
Supplemental
1988 Changes Made to Gl Bill
1987 Congress Enacts Permanent GI
Bill
1983 New Gl Bill
1982 New GI Bill Proposals
1981 Veterans’ Benefits Cut
1981 New GI Bill Proposals
1980 Veterans' Education Aid
1979 Veterans' Education Benefits
1978 Presidential Statement: Carter
Proposes Assistance for Vietnam-
Era Veterans
1977 Amendments to GI Bill
1975 Veterans Bills
1974 Veto of Veterans' Benefits Bill
Overridden
1971 Veterans Bills
1970 Veterans' Unemployment
1970 Veterans' Housing
1968 Veterans' Employment
1968 Veterans' Education
1968 Message to Congress: Johnson on
Veterans
1967 Veterans' Benefits
1966 Congress Approves ‘Cold War GI’
Benefits
1965 Cold War Veterans' Bill Passed by
Senate
1961 Defense Education Act Extended
Two Years
1961 Cold War GI Bill
1960 Veterans' Housing Loans
1959 Veterans' Housing Loans
1959 Cold War GI Bill
1957 Veterans' Housing
1955 GI Education
1954 Korean GI Bill
1952 Housing Probe
1952 GI Bill Extended To Korea
Veterans
1951 Korean Veterans Housing
1951 Defense Housing
1950 Land Grant Colleges
1950 GI Training Survey
1950 GI Schooling Programs
1948 Military and Veterans 1948:
Summary of Action
1945 Veterans Housing
1945 Broadening of GI Bill of Rights
1945 Amendments to GI Bill
Military Construction and Base Closures
Defense Housing
An article from CQ Almanac 1951
Document Outline
Senate
House
Conference
Group Stands
S 349 — P.L. 139
Summary — Congress authorized $1.635 billion worth of federal aid for
housing in critical defense areas and ordered relaxation of credit restrictions
on low-cost homes.
By its key provision the legislation (S 349) expanded the National Housing
Act to extend additional Federal Housing Administration mortgage insurance
to privately financed defense housing. It also provided for some government -
constructed housing in areas where private construction was not adequate,
and authorized $10 million for land condemnation in isolated areas to prevent
speculation.
Federal aid for housing was the subject of another controversy when
lawmakers reduced the number of public housing units that could be
constructed in 1952. This was done in the Independent Offices Appropriation
(see page 115). “Public housing” is intended for low-income families. “Defense
housing” is for workers moving to defense plant areas where existing housing
is critically short.)
For defense housing, the Administration requested $3 billion, but the House
on March 14 refused to consider a bill for this amount. The Senate Banking
Committee halved the sum before reporting its bill to the Senate March 21.
After two days of debate the Senate April 9 passed the scaled-down S 349
by a voice vote.
When the Senate bill came up for House debate Aug. 14, Jesse P. Wolcott (R
Mich.) led a two-day fight to defeat the measure, then sought to cut its life
from two years to one and to eliminate the authority for the government to
furnish “community services.” Several limiting amendments were accepted
before the House approved the bill on Aug. 15. Two of the House disputes
were settled on roll call (see p. 200).
Most of the House provisions were accepted by the conference committee. Its
compromise version was approved by the Senate Aug. 20 and by the House
Aug. 21.
The bill was signed by the President Sept. 1 and became Public Law 139.
Provisions — Major provisions of the bill as enacted were:
Money authorized (in millions)
Government-constructed housing $50
Community facilities and services 60
Loans to prefabricated housing builders 15
Land condemnation in isolated areas 10
FHA mortgage insurance on privately constructed housing 1,500
$1,635  
Other Provisions
 
7/20/09 3:40 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal51-1406421&type=hitlist&num=7
Military Construction and Base ClosuresLimit authority of Act to “critical defense housing areas.”
Provide housing by the following steps:
1. Announce publicly the number of permanent dwelling units needed; 2. Drop credit restrictions on housing; 3.
Make government mortgage insurance aids available; 4. Permit federal construction if no private builders make
bonafide applications to avail themselves of mortgage insurance aids within 90 days.
Provide federal aid for community services and facilities only when local government is unable to do it.
Provide aid in following order of preference:
1. Loans; 2. Grants where loans would mean an excessive increase in local debt; 3. Direct federal construction and
operation where first two choices would be ineffective. Terminate the Act June 30, 1953.
Mortgage Insurance
Authorize the Federal Housing Administration to insure mortgages on one and two - family houses, not to exceed 90
per cent of value, or not to exceed $8,100 for one-family, $15,000 for two-family units ($9,000 and $16,000 in high -
cost areas), for 30 years at 4 1/2 per cent.
Authorize FHA to insure mortgages on multi-family rental projects at 90 per cent of value or $7,200 a unit or, for
units larger than four rooms, $8,100 ($900 a unit additional in high-cost areas).
Increase FHA mortgage authority $1.5 billion for this purpose.
Authorize FHA to set rents and method of operation.
Government Construction
Authorize government to construct units for sale if no private builders were interested.
Sell such units on 25 - year, four per cent basis.
Authorize government construction of temporary units where need was temporary.
Limit government construction costs to $9,000, $10,000 and $11,000 for two, three and four-bedroom units (plus
$1,000 increase in high-cost areas and 50 per cent increase outside United States) and authorize $50 million for
this purpose.
Authorize government loans, grants or construction and operation of community facilities and services, and authorize
$60 million for this purpose.
Land Acquisition
Authorize Housing and Home Finance Administrator to condemn land and plan housing developments in isolated
areas in order to preclude land speculation, reimburse local government for tax loss on government land, and
authorize $10 million for this phase of the program.
Authorize $15 million for loans for production and distribution of prefabricated housing.
Extend to July 1st, 1953, authority for insurance on mortgages for privately owned rental housing near military
installations (Wherry Act).
Limit maximum downpayments required on homes financed under the GI bill to four per cent for homes costing
$7,000 or less, six per cent for homes up to $10,000, and eight per cent for those up to $12,000.
Permit President to extend life of Lanham Act housing and permit rent increases.
Extend to June 30, 1953, authority for Veterans Administration direct housing loans to veterans.
Limit credit restrictions on all housing to 10 per cent downpayment on homes costing less than $7,000, 15 per cent
for $10,000 homes, and 20 per cent on $12,000 homes.
(The law in setting maximum down-payments which price control officials could require did not prevent officials from
lowering or withdrawing entirely required downpayments on homes. It thus set a maximum on what they could
require home buyers to pay down, but did not set a minimum.)
Background — In his State of the Union message Jan. 8 and again in his Economic Report to Congress Jan. 12
President Truman called for expanded defense housing, specifically asking that private construction of rental
housing for defense workers be encouraged and publicly financed housing and related facilities be provided where
necessary.
On Jan. 4 Sen. Burnet R. Maybank (D S. C.) and Rep. Brent Spence (D Ky.), chairmen of the Senate and House
Banking and Currency Committees announced they would introduce defense housing bills after delivery of the
7/20/09 3:40 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal51-1406421&type=hitlist&num=7
Banking and Currency Committees announced they would introduce defense housing bills after delivery of the
President's message. The measures were presented promptly to the two chambers — in the Senate Jan. 11 and
the House Jan. 12.
Senate
Hearing
J. William Fulbright (D Ark.) on Jan. 11 introduced the defense housing bill (S 349) in the Senate on behalf of
Maybank. With provisions as requested by the Administration, the bill called for a $3 billion housing program.
Committee hearings were underway within a week.
Raymond M. Foley, Housing and Home Finance Administrator, urged approval of the proposed legislation Jan. 16
because it “would be most unwise not to establish now the necessary authority to meet fully, effectively and
promptly” all foreseeable housing needs arising from the nation's rearmament drive. He described the program as
largely “standby in character.”
At Committee sessions, one of the severest critics of the huge program was Sen. A. Willis Robertson (D Va.). He
declared that even without the proposed credit program the nation faced one of its greatest threats ever from
inflation. The Senator said the proposal would form the basis for $18 billion in new credit, declaring that every dollar
of initial credit was always “magnified six times” in the long run as a result of a chain of developments.
Franklin D. Richards, Federal Housing Administration commissioner, said Jan. 17 that without the proposed
legislation, Congress would have to be called on to authorize an additional $2 billion for the FHA to carry on its
regular mortgage insurance program for another year.
In view of this, Sen. John J. Sparkman (D Ala.) said the “additional impact” of the defense housing bill would amount
to only about $1 billion. Sparkman said he agreed the Administration program could increase inflationary pressures.
He added, however, that the plan was vitally important and should be undertaken despite the inflation danger.
Shift to Defense Jobs
The Committee was told by John L. Thurston, Assistant Federal Security Administrator, that two million workers
would transfer from non-defense to defense jobs during the next six months. He said the Labor Department made
the estimate.
Sen. Wallace F. Bennett (R Utah) said Mr. Thurston was implying there would be a vast migration of workers from
their present communities to new localities.
Mr. Thurston said he did not mean to imply it would happen, but he recalled that during World War II about nine
million workers migrated to other communities “in the interest of the war effort.”
The Deputy Director of Installations for the Air Force, Brig. Gen. Colby M. Myers, told the Committee the Air Force
“has lost much of its potential combat effectivenes” since World War II because of a lack of family housing units
near air bases.
But Sen. Irving M. Ives (R N.Y.) charged that the whole program lacked “co-ordination” because it was impossible to
plan housing until the location of defense installations was known.
Two Atomic Energy Commission officials, Walter Williams and Carroll Towne, testified in favor of the bill on Jan. 18.
They said the program would mean housing in the vicinity of plant sites for atomic energy installations.
The Committee Feb. 1 heard William Levitt of Levitt Brothers testify “that we've got to have war housing legislation”
and that the pending bill was “no better or worse” than others.
Direct opposition came from Lawrence A. Epter, of the Mortgage Bankers Association of New York, Inc., who said
Feb. 2 the defense housing bill was “another attempt of the Administration to foist public housing” upon private
industry.
Witness Scolded
Hearings were temporarily interrupted, but soon resumed. Chairman Maybank scolded a Chamber of Commerce
witness Feb. 14.
“I wish that when the Chamber of Commerce comes before this Committee it would suggest something
advantageous for the country, and not always delay, delay, delay … Every time we delay we help only one person
— that is the fellow who lives in Moscow,” Maybank said.
Norman P. Mason, chairman of the Chamber's construction committee, had told the Committee additional defense
housing legislation “is not necessary now.”
Wallace J. Campbell of the Cooperative League suggested that the amortization period be extended beyond 25
years so that rents would be lower than the anticipated $75–$93 a month rental of the defense units. A. T. Lundberg
and B. A. Lilywhite, speaking for Arlington County, Va., suggested the legislation be extended to dispersal areas.
7/20/09 3:40 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal51-1406421&type=hitlist&num=7
Dr. Walter B. Martin of Norfolk, Va., and of the American Medical Association, and Mrs. Jack B. Fahy of the
American Parents Committee suggested that any hospital, educational, or welfare facilities construction be done
under existing federal aid programs. Bernard Weitzer of the Jewish War Veterans favored S 349, but suggested that
a renegotiation provision be added to it.
On Feb. 15, Richard Perrin of the American Municipal Association and several municipal officials urged enactment of
the bill to help defense centers solve their housing problems.
“Artificial Shortage” Charged
William Green, president of the American Federation of Labor, testified Feb. 16 in favor of the legislation. He said if
private industry could not meet the low - cost housing needs of defense workers, the government should provide for
them through public housing. Defense Mobilizer Charles E. Wilson in a letter to the Committee, urged quick action
on a housing program “to avoid disruption of the entire defense program.”
Alexander Summer of Newark, N.J., president of the National Association of Real Estate Boards, charged that an
artificial housing shortage was being created through unnecessary regulations in order to build up a demand for
government housing. He opposed the bill.
On Feb. 19 Leo Goodman and John Edelman of the CIO National Housing Committee told of serious need for
housing in defense areas. They favored priority for military housing, relaxation of credit controls in defense areas,
encouragement of prefabricated housing.
Feb. 20 David L. Krooth, president of the National Housing Conference, urged lower rents on public housing to meet
the need for low - cost housing. W. P. Atkinson, president of the National Association of Home Builders, asked that
credit controls be relaxed in defense areas so that private builders could carry most of the load on defense housing.
On March 1 a spokesman for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People supported the
program but testified against any moves to put it on a segregated basis.
Committee
The Senate Banking Committee on March 20 approved S 349. Its version would have authorized:
$1.5 billion for federal insurance of home mortgages in defense areas. This was one - half of the amount asked in
the Administration bill as introduced.
$60 million for federal grants or loans for schools, streets, etc., in defense areas.
$50 million to build homes in “isolated” defense areas where private capital could not provide housing.
$15 million for loans to prefabricated house manufacturers.
$10 million to buy land to prevent speculation in defense areas.
Floor Action
The bill was reported in the Senate March 21 and Senate debate opened on April 5.
Maybank told the Senate “the need for this legislation is urgent, very urgent. We are only at the very beginning of
what will be a huge and gigantic defense effort.” He said the bill was a compromise, but that it could not satisfy
everyone.
Maybank noted that the CIO had opposed the measure. The CIO said the homes to be built under the bill would be
too expensive for workers to rent. The Committee had estimated that rents would be from $75 to $95 exclusive of
utilities.
Robert A. Taft (R Ohio) said the Republican Policy Committee had decided not to oppose the bill, but he added that
some leaders would ask for certain modifications.
Following a three-day recess, the Senate resumed debate April 9. It passed the scaled-down S 349, after
incorporating many provisions designed to prevent abuse either by private builders or government agencies.
Altogether 12 amendments were adopted and only one rejected. Another by Sen. Everett M. Dirksen (R Ill.) limiting
prefabricated housing loans to purposes of distribution only was withdrawn before a decision was made on it.
Curb on Builders
The amendment which provoked the most exchange provided that no private builder would be able to get a
government-insured loan under the program unless he made a sworn statement that it did not exceed his cash
investment in the building project. It was offered by Wallace F. Bennett (R Utah) and adopted upon voice vote, after it
was amended by Russell B. Long (D La.), to exclude profits of the prime contractor from project costs for mortgaging
purposes. Long said that, in most cases, the mortgagor was the prime con tractor.
Paul H. Douglas (D Ill.) who was consulted in the framing of the amendment, said it was designed to prevent
7/20/09 3:40 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal51-1406421&type=hitlist&num=7
repetition of an abuse that occurred during and after World War II, under a similarly attractive housing incentive
program. At that time, he asserted, builders “in general did not put up any money at all and, in some cases, made
money on the mortgages” by inflating costs. Long said some loans were as high as 150 per cent of costs.
Douglas, furthermore, proposed an inquiry into operations of the Federal Housing Administration, which makes
government housing mortgages, to determine whether “favored groups” received special breaks, in financing big
housing projects, while others “were held at arm's length.”
Maybank generally supported the Bennett-Long amendment but said “if we want to get houses built, the contractors
are entitled to their shares of the profits.” Hubert H. Humphrey (D Minn.) felt the mortgage safeguards written into the
bill were “a little bit better” but big contractors still would be “completely insured by Uncle Sam's dollars”.
Jibing at critics of the welfare state and the intrusion of government, Humphrey said the housing program showed “it
all depends on where the gravy is spilled.” Homer E. Capehart (R Ind.) retorted that Humphrey's remarks convinced
him the defense housing bill was one of the finest ever before the Senate and said his arguments against it were
taken from a statement handed to Senators by a “CIO lobbyist.”
Amendments Accepted
Everett M. Dirksen (R Ill.) — Prohibit any loan in excess of $500,000 for production of prefabricated housing. Voice
vote.
John J. Sparkman (D Ala.) — Extend to July 1, 1953, authority of Veterans Administration to make loans for veterans
housing when such loans are not otherwise available. Voice.
Francis Case (R S.D.) — Bar expenditure of funds for administrative expenses of FHA except by Congressional
authorization. Voice.
Russell B. Long (D La.) — Modify Bennett amendment to exclude profits of the prime contractor from project costs for
mortgaging purposes. Voice.
Wallace F. Bennett (R Utah) — Require a sworn statement from a contractor that the cost of his building project is not
less than the amount received under the mortgage. Amended by Long (above), then adopted by voice.
Sparkman — Bar mortgagee from charging veteran any fee other than those authorized by law. Voice.
Sparkman — Permit applicant for mortgage prior to March 1, 1950, to transfer application when bill becomes law
without payment of new fees. Voice.
William F. Knowland (R Calif.) — Extend powers for acquisition of land for privately financed defense housing to areas
embracing two contiguous cities. Voice.
Dirksen — Limit government-constructed housing to areas which are “isolated or relatively isolated” in character.
Voice.
Dirksen — Limit to $5 million the administrative expenses for maintenance and operation of federal housing
properties under bill. Voice.
Bennett — Allow private builders 90 days instead of 60 to file applications to build defense housing in critical areas
where the government otherwise would be permitted to build. Voice.
Amendments Rejected
Everett M. Dirksen (R Ill.) — Require findings with respect both to the lack of facilities and private inability to finance
housing before government could build. Voice vote.
House
Hearings
The companion bill in the House for the defense housing program was HR 1272, introduced by Chairman Brent
Spence (D Ky.) of the House Banking and Currency Committee. The group opened public hearings Jan. 22, with
Raymond M. Foley, Housing and Home Finance Administrator, as first witness.
Foley noted that the bill would give a green-light to direct federal construction in areas where private builders would
not undertake the work. But Foley promptly discounted a suggestion from Committee Member Howard H. Buffett (R
Neb.) that this feature might add up to a “socialized housing program”
The HHFA chief was on the witness stand for two days before completing his analysis of the measure. His remarks
closely paralleled those he had previously made about S 349 before the Senate Banking Committee.
The House Committee received an endorsing statement Jan. 23 from Franklin D. Richards, Commissioner of the
Federal Housing Administration which would handle the $3 billion program. The funds would be extended FHA in
the form of power to issue insured mortgages in that amount. Some $150 million would go in cash to the HHFA.
7/20/09 3:40 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal51-1406421&type=hitlist&num=7
Federal Security Administrator Oscar R. Ewing appeared Jan. 24—and urged that the FSA be granted control over
health, welfare and educational features carried in the legislation. Community facilities not directly concerned with
housing should be vested in his agency, he contended.
Health Officials Testify
Chairman Spence backed him up, asserting “I wouldn't like the HHFA to usurp the functions of Public Health.”
Foley, however, had said the HHFA intended only to “coordinate” the various phases of the program, not run them
all.
Officials of the U. S. Public Health Service testified in favor of the bill's principles. Walter J. Williams, Atomic Energy
Commission production director, approved the bill.
Among witnesses who testified Jan. 29 in favor of the bill were David Krooth, president of the National Housing
Conference, Inc., Dr. Albert V. Whitehall, director of the Washington Service Bureau, American Hospital Association,
Ralph Walker, president of the American Institute of Architects, and Rt. Rev. Msgr. John O'Grady, secretary of the
National Conference of Catholic Charities.
Also John Williamson, vice chairman of the national legislative committee of the Veterans of Foreign Wars, Dr.
Edgar Fuller, executive secretary, National Council of Chief State School Officers, John J. Gunther, legislative
representative, Americans for Democratic Action, Mrs. Catherine Fahy, American Parents Committee, Mayor Royce
S. McCelland, Wilmington, N. C., Mayor Eugene Swartz, Gary, Ind., and C. A. Hanell, city manager, Norfolk, Va.,
representing the American Municipal Association.
Witness Lawrence A. Epter, president of the Mortgage Bankers Association of New York, attacked “blank check”
powers in the bill. Edward L. Wilson, managing director of the Trailer Coach Manufacturers Association, Earl
Raymond, chairman of the Washington Committee of the Association, and James E. Redmond of Redmond Trailer
Co., Alma, Mich., advocated amendments to the bill providing for financing for mobile housing.
William P. Atkinson, president of the National Association of Home Builders, and Fred G. Stiles of Stiles Builders,
Grand Rapids, Mich., endorsed the purposes of the bill but sought relaxation of credit restrictions in defense areas.
Brig. Gen. Colby M. Myers of the Defense Department said the war agency would need $3 billion just for its own
defense housing program.
NAREB Views
The National Association of Real Estate Boards went on record against the Administration's bill as hearings
continued Feb. 2. Alexander Summer, NAREB president, testified “no subsidies” were needed for private industry to
do the job “better, quicker, and at less cost” than the government could.
Summer testified also that the bill might amount to “a toe in the door for public housing.” He suggested a relaxation
of federal curbs on building credit as a better alternative.
Representing the AFL's Building and Construction Trades Department, Richard Gray told the lawmakers HR 1272
did not go far enough in terms of housing that defense workers actually “can afford.” Gray said allowable rents in
defense housing projects should be limited to one quarter of a worker's income.
Leo Goodman, on behalf of the CIO's National Housing Committee, supported the bill, and declared that additional
defense housing could be made available if the government would sell World War II housing to persons presently
occupying it.
Reps. Leroy Johnson (R Calif.) and John J. Riley (D S.C.) went before the House group Feb. 6 to describe crowded
housing conditions in their districts, and urge federal aid to relieve them.
Committee
The House Banking and Currency Committee on April 27 approved HR 1272 with nearly 30 amendments, including
one suggesting lighter credit curbs in defense areas. Chairman Spence reported the vote as 15 to 8. The bill was
replaced with a “clean” bill, HR 2988 and formally reported March 6.
By a roll-call vote of 170 to 219 (see p. 200) the House refused on March 14 to take up the legislation. Jesse P.
Wolcott (R Mich.) led the opposition to the move to consider the bill saying the bill would put the government into the
housing business. His stand was supported, in the final vote, by 176 Republicans and 43 Democrats, mostly
Southerners. Supporting the motion to take up the Spence bill were 162 Democrats, seven Republicans and one
independent.
In a Republican caucus March 13, GOP Representatives agreed to support a substitute bill (HR 3197) introduced
March 13 by Wolcott. His bill called for $1.5 billion to guarantee mortgage lenders a gross profit on defense housing
projects.
The House Banking Committee Aug. 2 recommended S 349, which the Senate had passed April 9, but proposed
hrey (D) some changes. The recommended bill would have authorized an additional $1.5 billion for FHA insurance,
including permanent non-defense programs, whereas the Senate bill provided $1.5 billion for use in defense areas
7/20/09 3:40 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal51-1406421&type=hitlist&num=7
including permanent non-defense programs, whereas the Senate bill provided $1.5 billion for use in defense areas
only. The House Committee version also authorized $100 million for federal and local governments to build
community facilities in critical areas, and $75 million for temporary or permanent housing if private builders did not
attempt to fill an announced need within 90 days. Senate bill authorized $60 million and $50 million, respectively, for
these programs.
Floor Action
On Aug. 15 the House approved S 349 but in substantially the same form as the Senate had approved it April 9.
The House debate opened Aug. 14. Spence, as head of the Committee having jurisdiction over the bill, explained its
purpose to his colleagues.
“It is to provide defense housing and community facilities and services in critical defense housing areas and in
military areas,” he said. “Whether we think there is sufficient housing in the United States generally or not, housing
is certainly needed in those areas. There are great installations being constructed in various sections of the country
where there will be a great in-migration of military personnel and defense workers. Housing is as essential to these
people as the building plants.”
Ray J. Madden (D Ind.) said the bill “is a step in the right direction.” He added, however, that it “does not set up,
sufficiently, machinery which can adequately take care of the need for low-priced housing at military installations and
industrial areas.”
Wolcott led the opposition. “There is no need for this bill,” he said. “Somebody has got into their minds that if they
can make it tough enough for private enterprise, private enterprise will not or cannot build the units required. Then
they activate the public - housing provisions of this Act and make it necessary for the federal government to come in
and do the job. To me, that is socialism, if it is carried to any extreme at all.”
Sees Decline in Housing
Buffett said the bill would result in less housing in defense areas. “This bill,” he said, “will put a damper on private
housing, as the socialistic-minded bureaucrats begin to move in. We will have a decline in housing.”
Wolcott offered an amendment to drop from the bill authority for the government to furnish “community services.”
Spence insisted some local communities would not be able to provide these necessary services. The amendment
was rejected on teller vote, 122–125.
Wolcott then offered an amendment to suspend entirely housing credit restrictions in critical areas. The bill had
called for relaxation of these restrictions. Wolcott said his amendment would stimulate private construction. It was
agreed to on teller vote, 108–105.
Another amendment by Wolcott to confine government construction to temporary housing was rejected on teller
vote, 102–127.
Proposes One-Year Bill
When debate continued Aug. 15, Wolcott sought to cut the life of the bill from two years to one. He said it should be
reconsidered after one year. Spence said it should continue for two years in order to be effective.
Wolcott offered his earlier termination proposal in the form of five separate amendments to different sections of the
bill. At first all were approved on non - record votes. Later, however, the House took up the amendments again and
voted on all of them at once. This time the cut was rejected in roll-call vote, 184–188 (see p. 200). Democrats
opposed the cut 25–178; Republicans supported it 159–9.
The House accepted on voice vote an amendment by Spence to drop from the bill all reference to school
construction or maintenance. Graham A. Barden (D N.C.), chairman of the Education and Labor Committee, warned
that school aid would bring up religious controversies. The bill would have permitted local governments to rule on aid
for construction of parochial schools. The Spence amendment removed school aid from the bill.
An amendment by Albert M. Cole (R Kan.) to strike out government authority to condemn land and plan housing
developments in isolated areas was first approved on teller vote, 134–124, and later rejected on roll-call vote, 175–
199. Cole said the section would permit socialistic planning. Wright Patman (D Tex.) said the provision was
necessary to block land speculators and black marketeers in such areas as the H-bomb plant in South Carolina.
The House refused, on a 100–126 teller vote, to approve a Committee-sponsored increase in funds for government
construction of homes and community facilities and services. The Committee recommended a $40 million boost for
homes and a $25 million increase for facilities and services. Wolcott said such an increase over the Senate-
approved figures was not justified.
Cole's motion to send the bill back to the Committee was rejected on voice vote. The bill was then passed on voice
vote.
Amendments Accepted
Jesse P. Wolcott (R Mich.) — Suspend all credit restriction in critical housing areas instead of relaxing restriction.
7/20/09 3:40 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal51-1406421&type=hitlist&num=7
Standing vote, 96–91.
Shepard J. Crumpacker, Jr., (R Ind.) — Provide that designation of a critical area be announced in a local
newspaper. Voice.
Brent Spence (D Ky.) — Strike out authorization for school construction and operation. Voice.
Wolcott — Clarify directions for later sale of government-owned public housing. Voice.
Wolcott — Confine financing of “facilities” to those specifically named in the bill. Voice.
Wolcott — Confine financing of “services” to those specifically named in the bill. Voice.
John Phillips (R Calif.) — Increase rent on government - financed units not appraised since 1941–42. Voice.
Jacob K. Javits (R N.Y.) — Permit all veterans to take advantage of the past increase in the Veterans Administration
mortgage guarantee maximum. Voice.
Charles B. Deane (D N.C.) — Permit the Federal National Mortgage Association to give prior committments in the
case of defense housing projects. Wherry Act projects and disaster area projects. Standing, 125–42.
Winfield K. Denton (D Ind.) — Limit credit restrictions on all homes selling under $10,000 to not more than 10 per
cent down payment and on homes selling under $12,000 to not more than 20 per cent down payment. Voice.
Amendments Rejected
Jesse P. Wolcott (R Mich.) — Strike out authorization for government-provided “services.” First agreed to on standing
vote, 98–94, then rejected on teller vote, 122–125.
Albert M. Cole (R Kan.) — Permit the government to build houses only in isolated or semi-isolated areas. Standing,
85–98.
Wolcott — Ban government-construction of permanent housing units. Standing, 102–127.
Fred L. Crawford (R Mich.) — Increase from 90 to 150 the number of days private enterprise would be given to signify
intentions to fulfill  designated critical housing needs. Voice.
Wolcott — Cut life of bill from two years to one. This change was offered in a series of five identical amendments
cutting the life of different sections of the bill. All were agreed to on a series of non-record votes; then the House
rejected them in a single roll call vote. The first such amendment was agreed to originally on standing vote, 92–62,
then on teller vote 102–78; the second was agreed to on standing vote, 85–67, then on teller vote, 107–79; the
third was first rejected on standing vote, 75–77, then agreed to on teller vote, 109–95; the fourth was agreed to on
standing vote, 120–104; the fifth on voice vote. All were then rejected on roll call, 184–188.
Jacob K. Javits (R N.Y) — Ban discrimination or segregation in community facilities and services built with tax money.
Standing, 57–79.
Cole (R Kan.) — Strike out authorization for government condemnation and planning of housing developments in
isolated areas. First agreed to on standing vote, 134–124; later rejected on roll call, 175–199.
Conference
On Aug. 16 the Senate requested a conference and the House agreed. The conference report was filed Aug. 20. It
was approved by the Senate the same day and by the House on Aug. 21.
The House - Senate conference committee accepted most of the provisions approved by the lower chamber.
Differences in major provisions were:
The House bill called for the suspension of credit restrictions in critical areas. The Senate bill ordered them relaxed,
leaving details to the President. The conference bill specified that they be suspended for housing costing less than
$12,000 or renting for less than $85 a month and actually needed in such areas for defense workers or military
personnel. Other credit relaxation in such areas would be left up to the President.
The House put a ban on government aid to school construction or operation under the bill. The Senate included
schools. The House ban was accepted by the conferees.
The House bill authorized the Federal National Mortgage Association to make advance commitments for the
purchase of mortgages on $500 million worth of housing in critical areas, on Wherry Act housing and on disaster
area projects, the commitments to be made before March 1, 1952. The Senate bill had no such provision. The
conference cut the ceiling on commitments to $200 million and cut the time limit to Dec. 31, 1951.
Downpayment Requirements
The House bill set at six per cent the limit on the maximum downpayment which could be required on a GI - bill -
7/20/09 3:40 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 9 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal51-1406421&type=hitlist&num=7
The House bill set at six per cent the limit on the maximum downpayment which could be required on a GI - bill -
financed veteran's home costing less than $12,000. The Senate bill had exempted from credit restrictions all homes
sold to veterans employed in defense plants in critical areas. The conference set the requirement on homes costing
$7,000 or less at four per cent, at six per cent for homes up to $10,000, and at eight per cent for those up to
$12,000.
The House bill set a maximum down payment requirement on all other homes costing less than $10,000 at 10 per
cent and at 20 per cent for homes up to $12,000. The Senate had no such provision. The conference agreed to 10
per cent for $7,000 homes, 15 per cent for $10,000 homes and 20 per cent for $12,000 homes.
The downpayment requirements which the conferees agreed to could not be exceeded by economic stabilization
officials but still would permit the Administration to reduce or eliminate such requirements. This applied both to
homes financed under the GI bill and to those financed otherwise.
Sen. Burnet R. Maybank (D S.C.)—urged Senate approval of the conference bill Aug. 20. He said the most
controversial provision was the House ban on aid to schools. He said the conference accepted the ban only when
Chairman Graham A. Barden (D N.C.) of the House Education and Labor Committee promised to bring out a separate
bill on the subject “as soon as possible.”
After brief discussion, the Senate agreed to the conference report on voice vote. The House agreed to it on voice
vote Aug. 21 without discussion.
President Truman signed S 349 on Sept. 1, and it became Public Law 139.
Group Stands
Labor and the housing industry generally agreed on the immediate need for a defense housing program but differed
on whether the “worker” or the “builder” would benefit from the House and Senate versions of S 349.
Labor publications in general, regarded the legislation as more a “realtors' relief project” than as housing relief for
defense workers and military personnel.
Realtor and home builder groups stressed the “socialized” aspects of the federal public housing program already in
operation. They also argued that the public housing program competed for critical materials needed for the defense
housing program.
For the most part, private builders said adequate mortgage insurance and less restriction on critical materials were
necessary for their full participation in the program.
Labor Views
The International Association of Machinists (AFL) said the “real estate lobby wins another round on defense
housing” in the Committee's version of S 349. The labor group declared that the bill “provides for almost no
reasonably priced rental units,” and that “what the bill does is to guarantee profits to private builders putting up
homes and apartments in defense areas.”
IAM President Al Hayes in a letter to the House Committee commented that “unless action is taken immediately to
provide adequate housing at rents workingmen can afford, we will be unable to provide sufficient manpower to meet
expanding production schedules.”
IAM earlier had said that the Senate bill did not provide for a defense housing program but for a “realtors' relief
project.” it urged workers moving to defense areas to write to their Congressmen if they didn't like “tent-life.”
Labor's League for Political Education (AFL) said that housing rental units to be built under the mortgage insurance
program would rent for “far more than most GI's and defense workers could afford.”
CIO's monthly publication “Economic Outlook” devoted an entire issue to “The Housing Fiasco.” Included was a
warning that “Congress must put a stop to such practices as cost-plus profiteering and the outright subsidies
allowed by the government insured mortgage program.”
Housing Industry Stands
Following Senate passage of S 349, the National Association of Home Builders told its members that because of
drastic changes and last minute floor amendments, the bill was of “negligible value” since it “only could at the most
produce about 165,000 units and those only in designated critical locations.”
Referring to the federal public housing program, Frank W. Cortright of the NAHB said “it is highly improper that
billions of dollars of federal funds should be added to this burden for socialized public housing which does not serve
the defense workers' needs.” He added that the private home building industry was “unwilling to see public housing
move up to more than 10 times its monthly volume…when critical shortages in steel, copper and aluminum are
seriously limiting private building necessary to the war effort.”
The National Association of Real Estate Boards said in its publication, “Headlines,” that real estate industry
opposition to the Senate bill “centers primarily on loopholes that could be used to give priority to public housing and
7/20/09 3:40 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 10 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal51-1406421&type=hitlist&num=7
opposition to the Senate bill “centers primarily on loopholes that could be used to give priority to public housing and
prevent private enterprise from having a fair opportunity to build defense housing.”
NAREB further commented that the “catch” in S 349's mortgage plan was that “the builder's profit, the cost of the
land, off-site utilities and legal expenses cannot be included in the mortgage plan,” resulting in an “actual coverage
of considerably less than the intended 90 per cent.”
In a telegram to the Senate Preparedness Subcommittee which previouly had reported on living conditions near
military posts, Alexander Summer, NAREB president, said, “We have been aware of these sordid conditions for
months and have pleaded with the Administration to free the industry so that such problems could be solved.”
“If credit controls are lifted in defense areas,” the wire continued, “our industry will quickly produce enough housing
at prices and rentals that defense workers can pay to prevent serious shortages during the defense program. The
job can be done if the government will loosen the bonds on the industry, and give priority to those builders
producing housing for the lowest monthly rentals.”
Document Citation
"Defense Housing." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal51-1406421. Originally published in CQ
Almanac 1951 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1952). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal51-1406421 (accessed
July 20, 2009).
Document ID: cqal51-1406421
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal51-1406421
© 1952, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
