7/2/09 12:01 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal54-1357795&type=hitlist&num=0
Mortgages
2007 Tightening Reins on Mortgage
Lenders
2007 Debate Over Fannie, Freddie
Shifts
2007 Bills Aim to Ease Mortgage
Crunch
2005 Attempts to Rein In Mortgage
Giants Stall
1997 Mortgage Insurance Bill Advances
1994 Second Supplemental Keeps
Mortgage Programs Alive
1993 FHA Foreclosure Bill Awaits Final
Action
1990 Mortgage ‘Prepayment’
Compromise
1990 Federal Housing Administration
(FHA) Insurance Program Shored
Up
1989 Congress Raises Ceiling for
Federal Housing Administration
(FHA) Mortgage Loans
1983 Mortgage Revenue Bonds
1983 Mortgage Aid Fails
1980 Housing Authorization
1979 Tax-Exempt Mortgage Bonds
1975 Congress Clears ‘Redlining’
Legislation
1975 Congress Blocks Variable
Mortgage Rate Plan
1974 Congress Votes Emergency
Mortgage Aid
1972 Mortgage Settlement Costs
1970 Congress Clears Emergency Home
Finance Act Of 1970
1967 Home Ownership Bills not
Enacted in 1967
1966 Funds Provided FNMA to Help
Housing Industry
1966 “Participations” Approved as
Borrowing Device
1960 Emergency Housing Bill
1957 Congress Expands Housing
Programs
1954 Omnibus Housing Act Of 1954
1953 Housing Amendments
Banking
Housing Appropriations
Savings and Loan Industry
HR 7839 — Reported by the House
Banking and Currency Committee (H
Rept. 1429) March 29, 1954.
Passed by the House April 2 by a 353-36
roll-call vote (see page 244).
Reported by the Senate Banking and
Currency Committee (S Rept. 1472) May
28.
Passed by the Senate June 3 by voice
vote after approval of public housing
provision on a 66-16 roll-call vote (see
page 250).
Conference report (H Rept. 2271)
approved by the House July 20 on 358-30
roll-call vote; by the Senate July 28 on
59-21 roll-call vote.
P. L. 560 — Signed into law Aug. 2.
Omnibus Housing Act Of 1954
An article from CQ Almanac 1954
Document Outline
Background
House
Senate
Conference
The Housing Act was high on the list of “must” legislation sent to Congress by
President Eisenhower. Generally, its purpose was to make easier the
purchase and modernization of houses.
In addition, the Act gave private capital a greater share in the mortgage -
loan risk and provided safeguards against “windfall” profits and abuses on
loans for repairs.
The Administration asked for 35,000 units of new low-rent public housing
construction each year for four years. The House refused to grant any low-
rent housing but the Senate voted four years of it. The final compromise
authorized 35,000 units for one year instead of four.
This is how the House and
Senate voted on public
housing as originally
submitted:
 For Against
House total 176 211
Republicans 48 150
Democrats 127 61
Independent 1  
Senate total 66 16
Republicans 38 2
Democrats 28 13
Independent  1
Issues involved in the 1954
low-rent housing debate
included at least one factor
not present in other years. A
Supreme Court ruling May 24
against racial segregation in
a San Francisco public
housing project (which
followed the Court's May 14 decision against public school segregation)
caused many Southern members of Congress to turn against the public
housing section of the bill. Typical was the reaction of Sen. Burnet R. Maybank
(D S.C.), a staunch advocate of low-rent housing up to that time. One day
after the court ruling Sen. Maybank announced he was “abandoning a fight to
which my energies and devotion have been dedicated for a quarter of a
century.”
Provisions
As enacted, the Housing Act of 1954 contained the following major provisions:
Public housing: Authorized construction starts on up to 35,000 new public housing units in fiscal 1955, but
provided that such housing be built only where required for persons displaced by authorized slum-clearance
operations or other governmental programs.
Home repair loans: Required lenders of property repair and improvement loans insured by the Federal Housing
Administration to be supervised and approved by the FHA; restricted repair loans eligible for FHA insurance to those
which would substantially improve or protect the basic livability or utility of the property; barred use of FHA-insured
repair loans on new homes until completed and occupied for six months; forbade multiple FHA-insured repair loans
 
7/2/09 12:01 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal54-1357795&type=hitlist&num=0
repair loans on new homes until completed and occupied for six months; forbade multiple FHA-insured repair loans
for a single property which would total more than the maximum dollar limitation on a single loan; required lenders to
carry 10 per cent of the loss on individual FHA-insured repair loans; retained existing ceilings on repair loans
insurable by the FHA as well as past maximum maturity periods for such loans.
Sales housing: Provided for a maximum maturity period of 30 years or three-quarters of the FHA-estimated
remaining life, whichever is lower, on new and existing one-to-four-family sale housing bought with mortgages
insured by the FHA; permitted an FHA-insured mortgage  loan of up to 95 per cent of the first $9,000 of the
value of new housing and 75 per cent of the value above $9,000 but authorized the President to raise the $9,000
limit to $10,000; provided for a loan of up to 90 per cent of the first $9,000 of the value on existing housing, and 75
per cent of the balance in excess of $9,000. Authorized the President to raise the $9,000 limit to $10,000; limited
the maximum mortgage  amounts to $20,000 on one-or-two-family housing, to $27,500 on three-family
dwellings, and to $35,000 on four-family housing.
Low-cost suburban housing: Raised the maximum of an owner-occupant insurable mortgage  from the
existing $5,700 to $6,650, and of a builder-insurable mortgage  from the past $5,100 to $5,950; required a
minimum down payment of five per cent of the cost of acquisition of such housing.
Windfall profits: To eliminate “windfall” profits reaped by builders of rental housing financed with an FHA-insured 
mortgage , required builders to certify the actual cost of construction (after allowing 10 per cent as “normal”
profits) and to apply any amount by which the mortgage  loan exceeded actual construction costs to the
reduction of the mortgage  loan.
Mortgage  market: Provided for the rechartering of the Federal National Mortgage  Association, and for
gradual replacement by private investment funds of the government's investment in FNMA; established a National
Voluntary Mortgage  Credit Extension Committee.
Builder's warranty: Required builders or sellers of new-sale housing built with the aid of an FHA-insured or VA-
guaranteed mortgage  to deliver a warranty to the purchaser or owner declaring that the dwelling had been
constructed in “substantial conformity” with approved plans and specifications.
Urban planning: Authorized $5 million for preliminary planning grants to state agencies for planning public-works
programs.
Open-end mortgages: Permitted FHA insurance of advances under “open-end” provisions of mortgages, but
limited such advances to those which would be used for necessary improvements or repairs.
Housing rehabilitation: Authorized a new mortgage  insurance program to aid rehabilitation of existing
dwellings and construction of new housing in urban renewal areas; authorized a new mortgage  insurance
program to provide housing for persons displaced as a result of a governmental slum clearance project.
Transient housing: Barred the use of FHA-insured rental properties for transient or hotel purposes unless agreed
to by the FHA Commissioner by May 28, 1954, or if the FHA Commissioner found the project was in a resort area
and that accommodations had been used for transient or hotel purposes prior to May 28, 1954.
Public Agency loans: Authorized up to $50 million for a revolving fund for use by the Housing and Home Finance
Agency to make loans to public agencies for public projects. The program would be terminated on June 30, 1956.
Sales of government-owned housing: Provided for 90 per cent FHA-insured mortgages to finance the sale and
allowed loans up to 95 per cent on sales to vetterans.
FHA appraisal to house buyers: Directed the FHA Commissioner to require the seller or builder to make available
to the purchaser a statement of its FHA-appraised value. This applied only to purchases made after the 1954
Housing Act became effective.
Extension of Wherry Act: Extended for one year (to June 30, 1955) provisions for the purchase of military
housing.
Disposition of Defense Housing: Temporary housing owned by the government but no longer needed for defense
purposes was required to be sold to the highest bidder.
Background
References. “Housing Amendments,” CQ Almanac Vol. IX, 1953, pp. 190-193; “Defense Housing,” Vol. VIII, 1952,
p. 144; “Housing Act of 1950,” Vol. VI, 1950, pp 158-165; “Housing Act of 1949,” Vol. V, 1949, pp. 273-287.
A healthy housing industry had long been considered a bulwark against economic recession. It could contribute an
estimated $12 billion annually in new construction to the real wealth of the nation, directly provide employment for
more than a million construction workers and indirectly for hundreds of thousands in allied fields.
But despite the postwar building boom, housing needs remained. The following statistics were compiled from
statements issued by the Housing and Home Finance Agency and the National  Association of Home Builders:
Eight million families live in houses “unfit for human habitation” (NAHB's Correlator, February, 1954.) Out of more
than 40 million non-farm homes, 20 per cent are classed as substandard because of structural condition or lack of
basic sanitary facilities (HHFA Administrator Albert M. Cole, Nov. 13, 1953).
Although slum and blighted districts comprise about 20 per cent of metropolitan residential areas, they house 33 per
cent of the population, and account for 45 per cent of the major crimes, 55 per cent of the juvenile delinquency, 60
per cent of the tuberculosis victims, 50 per cent of the arrests, 35 per cent of the fires, 45 per cent of city service
costs—and only six per cent of real estate tax revenues.
7/2/09 12:01 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal54-1357795&type=hitlist&num=0
Additionally, four million more families live in houses that have deteriorated to near-slum condition and do not meet
health and safety standards. The average dwelling of 1954 is older than was the average house of 30 years ago.
A minimum of one million new homes a year was needed to provide housing for new families, and replace losses
through destruction and other factors, government and many private sources agreed. In addition, the record birth
rate indicated that new family formation would reach one and a half million yearly in the early 1960's and about two
million each year in the early 1970's.
NAHB officials concluded in 1954: “To prepare for this prospective housing boom we must put on the market two
million new or new-conditioned houses each year for the next 10 years.”
As to ability of the industry to meet these needs, home builders were confident. They said that housing was
becoming increasingly a mass-production industry capable of building good quality homes at low prices.
Public housing advocates countered that private industry had not been able to supply new housing for low-income
groups at a profit, claimed federal slum clearance and low-rent housing construction was necessary.
Both sides agreed that revision of the basic housing laws was desirable. These laws had their beginnings in the
30's, when interest on mortgages sometimes ran as high as 10 per cent, long-term mortgages were rare, and, with
cheap financing lacking, the housing market faltered.
It was then that the Home Loan Bank was set up to backstop the deposits of savings and loan associations, and
the Home Owners Loan Corporation was established to buy distress mortgages. In 1934, the Federal Housing
Administration was formed to insure mortgages on new housing at low rates. An important addition was the Housing
Act of 1949, designed to inaugurate a program of public housing linked to slum clearance and redevelopment.
Some maintained that numerous amendments and additions to these basic laws fell short of what was needed. R.
G. Hughes, president of NAHB, commented: “ Mortgage  market machinery and down payment schedules
established in the 1930's are totally inadequate to meet the needs of today's mass market.”
Public Housing
Over the years, low-rent housing had been the most controversial aspect of Presidential housing programs.
The Housing Act of 1949 (P.L. 171, 81st Congress) authorized 810,000 new low-rent public housing units over a
six-year period at the rate of 135,000 units a year. With the six-year period almost over, 75 per cent of these units
were non-existent in 1954. This was the status of the program as of Aug. 31, 1954:
Units authorized, 1949 810,000
Units built 164,110
Units contracted for or under construction 40,685
Remainder under 1949 Act 605,205
Congress was responsible for the gap between units authorized and contructed. Soon after the inception of the
program, the lawmakers began putting lower limits on the number of annual public housing construction starts.
These ceilings were always less than the President had requested, although the requests themselves were below
the initial 135,000 annual authorization. The following table compares the Congressional ceilings with Administration
requests:
 Requested Authorized
1951 75,000 units 50,000 units
1952 75,000 units 35,000 units
1953 (Truman) 75,000 units 20,000 units
(Eisenhower) 35,000 units  
1954 [*]35,000 units [**]35,000 units
[*] A year for four years.
[**] One year only.
President's Request
In his State of the Union message to Congress Jan. 7, 1954, President Eisenhower called attention to the need for
improving opportunities for people to acquire good homes.
On Jan. 25, the President sent a message to Congress dealing specifically with housing (H Doc. 306). It contained
proposals which, he said, offered “the means whereby our nation may provide more and better homes for our
families.” One of the most important provisions proposed construction of 35,000 units of new public housing in each
of the next four years.
The President noted that “good housing is a major objective of national  policy,” since it is “necessary for good
citizenship and good health among our people,” and since a “high level of housing construction and vigorous
community development are essential to the economic and social well being of our country.”
But he warned Congress that “programs must be avoided that would make our citizens increasingly dependent upon
the federal government to supply their housing needs.” He said he was “convinced that every American family can
have a decent home” through the joint efforts of “builders, lenders, and communities and the local, state and federal
governments, as well as individual citizens.”
7/2/09 12:01 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal54-1357795&type=hitlist&num=0
“Our housing deficiencies continue to be serious,” he said. Of 37 million non- farm homes, the President reported,
20 million are owner occupied, but 19 million “are more than 30 years old.”
The President made legislative proposals which, he said, reflected conclusions reached by his Advisory Committee
on Government Housing Policies and Programs and other Administration studies.
Slum Program
To meet “the problem of neighborhood decay,” and “eliminate the causes of slums and blight,” the President asked
Congress to:
Make available a program of loans and grants for renovation of “salvable” areas and for elimination of hopeless
slums, with $700 million from loan funds, and up to $250 million in grants.
Authorize the Federal Housing Administration to insure private credit extended to rehabilitate homes in decaying
neighborhoods.
Set up (with an additional $5 million appropriation) a program of matching grants to states and metropolian areas for
planning against the spread of slum conditions.
The President made the following proposals to “undertake the long-delayed job of maintaining existing homes in
good condition”:
“End the present discriminatory policy which favors the purchasing of new as against existing homes” by making the
maximum terms for the insurance of loans on existing homes comparable to those available for new housing.
Increase from $2,500 to $3,000 the maximum federally-insured loan to repair single-family homes, extend the
maximum repayment term from three to five years, and make comparable changes for rehabilitation of multiple
dwellings.
Low-income Housing
Citing the “continued lack of adequate housing, both new and used, for low-income families,” the President
recommended:
Authorizing FHA to insure “modest” long-term loans, with low initial payment, on both new and existing dwellings for
low-income families who need new homes because of slum rehabilitation and other public activities.
Authorization by Congress of construction of 140,000 new public housing units during the next four years at the rate
of 35,000 units a year.
The President made these other recommendations:
Modernize the National  Housing Act to include a more realistic scale of mortgage  ceilings.
Broaden Presidential authority to adjust terms on all government guaranteed and insured mortgages “in the light of
economic conditions.”
Reorganize the Federal National Mortgage  Association to eventually permit the full retirement of government
funds from secondary mortgage  market operations; allow “new” FNMA to manage and liquidate present 
mortgage  holdings which are government-owned assets, with all proceeds of liquidation to revert to the Treasury;
enable “new” FNMA to make direct use of Treasury funds for certain mortgage  purchasing activities.
Reorganize the federal housing set-up “to provide a better grouping of housing activities headed by an Administrator
with adequate supervisory authority.”
Take steps to insure families of minority groups displaced by urban redevelopment activities “a fair opportunity to
acquire adequate housing.”
Reaction in Congress
House Speaker Joseph W. Martin, Jr. (R Mass.), said the President's proposals were “designed to provide the best
possible answer to the question of the federal government's role in advancing good housing and a high level of
housing construction.”
House Majority Leader Charles A. Halleck (R Ind.) said the President's “proposals to stimulate private and community
activity in this field are most gratifying.”
Sen. Burnet R. Maybank (D S.C.) said the housing message “in the main endorsed the housing program developed
under the Democratic Administration,” and added he was “sorry” the President recommended only 35,000 new
public housing units for each of the next four years, instead of the 75,000-unit starts a year “authorized by the
Democrats.” Maybank charged the proposed cuts in public housing “hurt the Negro most.”
Chairman Jesse P. Wolcott (R Mich.) of the House Banking and Currency Committee, Jan. 26 praised the President's
housing plans, but said it would be hard to convince many Republicans that “there is any necessity for continuing”
the public housing program. Rep. Edgar W. Hie-stand (R Calif.) called the public housing program “socialistic,” while
Rep. Gordon L. McDonough (R Calif.) said plans to continue the public housing program were “demoralizing.”
At a Jan. 25 news conference, Albert M. Cole, Administrator of the Housing and Home Finance Agency, said the
President's low-payment housing plan would “take the pressure off” the public housing program. He also noted that
the proposed housing reorganization plan would not affect housing units of the Veterans Administration.
7/2/09 12:01 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal54-1357795&type=hitlist&num=0
The Chairmen of the House and Senate Banking and Currency Committees Feb. 12 introduced identical bills (HR
7839 and S 2938) to carry out President Eisenhower's requests. S 2938 was introduced by Sen. Homer E. Capehart
(R Ind.). HR 7839 was introduced by Rep. Wolcott.
House
Committee. Banking and Currency.
Hearings. Opened March 2 on HR 7839 and continued intermittently until March 18.
Testimony
March 2. Albert M. Cole, HHFA Administrator, generally was in favor of the bill. He said he did not then favor any
change in the 4 1/2 per cent interest rates on government-insured home mortgage  loans. (The bill would give
the President authority to establish the maximum rates of interest on such loans, insured or guaranteed by the
Federal Housing Administration or Veterans Administration, at a level no more than 2 1/2 per cent above the
average market yield on long-term government bonds.)
March 3. Other witnesses were Guy T. O. Hollyday, FHA commissioner; B. T. Fitzpatrick, deputy administrator and
general counsel, HHFA; J. Stanley Baughman, president, Federal National Mortgage  Association; James W.
Follin, director, Division of Slum Clearance and Urban Development, HHFA.
March 5. T. B. King of the Veterans Administration suggested that a veteran be permitted to apply to home
improvements any portion of his $7,500 loan guarantee not used to buy his home. King said the President's
proposals for liberalizing FHA mortgage  terms would place non-veterans and veterans “in virtually an equal
position.” He said that maximum interest rates allowable under HR 7839 would be higher than necessary.
March 8. Edward D. Hollander, Americans for Democratic Action, said the bill would benefit the seller, not the buyer,
of housing, thus “negating the purpose.” He said the President's recommendation (not contained in HR 7839) that
35,000 public housing units be constructed in each of the next four fiscal years would mean “only a token program.”
Hollander objected that HR 7839 contained no provisions to solve the problem of discrimination against minorities.
He recommended: Direct, liberal government housing credit; bigger grants to cities for urban renewal; more public
housing for low-income groups; and cooperative housing for middle-income families.
Boris Shishkin of the American Federation of Labor and Ben Fischer and John Edelman of the Congress of
Industrial Organizations criticized the Administration program as inadequate. Shishkin and Fischer urged that
200,000 public housing units be built annually.
John M. Ferry of the Air Force Department testified on moderate-priced housing for servicemen. Other witnesses
were: Lewis Whiteman, Associated Builders of Greater New York; and Oliver C. Winston and John Searles, 
National  Association of Housing and Redevelopment.
Chamber of Commerce
March 9. Norman P. Mason, U.S. Chamber of Commerce, opposed the provisions for 40-year mortgages as a
“radical departure … (which) calls for … general federal meddling which is unnecessary and undesirable.” He
suggested that Congress, not the President, fix credit terms. Mason supported the bill generally.
John A. Reilly of the American Bankers Association criticized several parts of the bill because “now is a time for
government participation in this (housing) field to be reduced rather than enlarged.”
March 10. The following witnesses supported the general purposes of HR 7839, but suggested various
amendments: W. A. Clarke, Mortgage  Bankers Association; James J. O'Malley, National  Savings and Loan
League; and Harry Held, National  Association of Mutual Savings Banks.
March 15. R. G. Hughes, president, National  Association of Home Builders, said the bill needed to be
“strengthened.” He proposed changes to:
Lower the minimum down payments, including “closing costs” on home mortgages insured by FHA.
Make lowered down payments and a 30-year minimum mortgage  period effective upon enactment.
Permit builders to rent houses to local school boards for temporary classrooms without affecting their mortgage
insurance, and to broaden coverage to include more families and minority groups.
Alter the Administration's proposal to continue a secondary mortgage  market.
Veterans' Groups
March 16. Wilbur C. Daniel, chairman, National  Economic Commission, American Legion, opposed the bill's
provision that the President fix the interest rate for FHA and VA mortgages at a level not to exceed the average
market yield on government bonds plus 2 1/2 per cent. It would, he said, “unquestionably result in an increase in
the interest rate.”
Adin M. Downer, assistant legislative officer, Veterans of Foreign Wars, also opposed this proposal and criticized
provision for more liberal credit terms for FHA home loans.
March 17. Henry G. Waltemade, chairman, Realtors' Washington Committee, National  Association of Real
Estate Boards, said: “We believe it is better to assist these (low-income) families to own their homes than to try to
7/2/09 12:01 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal54-1357795&type=hitlist&num=0
Estate Boards, said: “We believe it is better to assist these (low-income) families to own their homes than to try to
make them tenants of subsidized government-owned housing.” He commended the bill's proposal for government
guarantee of no-down-payment, 40-year mortgages for low cost housing.
Fritz Burns, chairman of the Association's Build America Better Council supported the Administration proposal to
broaden the FHA loan insurance program to cover home modernization and repair.
Committee Action
The Committee March 27 reported HR 7839 (H Rept. 1429) with amendments. Provisions of the bill recommended
by Committee:
Public Housing: The bill terminated the public housing program and rejected the President's request for additional
low-rent housing.
Home repair loans: To curb abuses, the bill provided that lenders be insured up to only 80 per cent of their loans.
It increased repair and improvement loans that could be insured from three years and 32 days to five years and 32
days. It lengthened the maturity dates on other types of insured loans.
Sales housing loans: It raised the maximum amount of insured loan from $16,000 to $20,000 for a one or two-
family house, from $20,500 to $27,500 for a three-family house, and from $25,000 to $35,000 for a four family
house. Five per cent was fixed as the minimum down payment. It provided a maximum of 30 years for maturity of
the mortgage  and a ratio of loan to value of 95 per cent on the first $10,000 plus 75 per cent of the excess
over $8,000.
Low-cost suburban housing: It integrated this FHA insuring operation with the FHA section 203 program on the
same scale as previous legislation.
Mortgage  market: It provided for rechartering the Federal National Mortgage  Association to provide a
secondary market and to gradually liquidate the government's investment.
Builder's warranty: It required the seller or builder of a new one or two-family house with an FHA or VA-insured
loan to guarantee that it had been constructed in “substantial conformity” with plans and specification.
Urban planning: It authorized the Administrator to make grants to public agencies to aid in financing the cost of
preliminary planning of public works programs.
Open-end mortgages: It permitted FHA insurance of improvements, which when added to the unpaid amount of
the mortgage , exceeded the original obligation.
Housing rehabilitation: It provided a new program of loan insurance to assist in the rehabilitation of existing
dwellings and construction of new housing in urban renewal areas. It also provided financing for relocation of people
displaced as a result of slum clearance.
Public Agency loans: It provided for resumption of federal aid loans in advance planning of non-federal public
works. The Housing and Home Finance Administrator was- authorized to loan, without interest up to a total of $10
million in a revolving fund. These public works were to be exclusive of housing.
Hotels: It prohibited use of FHA-insured housing for transient or hotel purposes.
Floor Action
The House April 2 passed and sent to the Senate, with amendments, the committee substitute for the
Administration's omnibus housing bill (HR 7839).
HR 7839 was passed, 353-36, on a roll-call vote. The House rejected, on a 176-211 roll call, a motion by Richard
Bolling (D Mo.) to recommit the bill with instructions to insert authorizations for 35,000 new low-rent public-housing
starts annually in fiscal 1955 through 1958 (for voting, see chart, page 244).
Debate
April 1. Chairman Wolcott of the Banking and Currency Committee said the bill contained 99 per cent of the
President's housing program. It would make it possible, he said, for “the American people to have something over
2,000,000 units of housing a year.”
Rep. Howard W. Smith (D Va.) said the Republicans were “hitch-hiking on the New Deal bandwagon” with housing
proposals they once had denounced as “socialistic.” Wright Patman (D Tex.) opposed the bill as “anti-veteran, a
banker's bill, a high-interest bill.”
Charles B. Brownson (R Ind.), who offered an amendment to lower proposed minimum down payments on FHA-
insured old or new homes, said down payments were not low enough in view of the rising cost of housing. Wolcott
said the schedule provided in the bill was as low as experts considered safe.
Abraham J. Multer (D N.Y.) proposed an amendment to strike from the bill provisions giving the President authority to
lower the amount of mortgage  down payments if he felt the economic situation required it. He said the
provision would give the President “full control over all real estate credit.” Wolcott replied that the provision merely
tied the housing program to the general economy of the nation.
Public Housing
April 2. Pro-public housing Democrats, including Brent Spence (D Ky.), sponsor of a rejected amendment to provide
140,000 units of public housing over a four-year period, said they were supporting President Eisenhower's position.
Republicans, including William B. Widnali (R N.J.), assured the House that the President would be satisfied with an
7/2/09 12:01 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal54-1357795&type=hitlist&num=0
Republicans, including William B. Widnali (R N.J.), assured the House that the President would be satisfied with an
amendment by Widnall, which was rejected, to authorize commitments for 35,000 units in fiscal 1955, for
construction in fiscal 1956. They said authority already existed for about 35,000 units to be constructed in fiscal
1955.
Opponents of public housing, led by Southern Democrats, chided Republicans who had opposed public housing in
the past for supporting Widnall's amendment.
Smith (D Va.) described the housing program as “… ridiculous … monstrous … socialistic … uneconomical … purely
political … just about everything evil that it can be called.”
AMENDMENTS ACCEPTED
(April 1)
Charles B. Brownson (R Ind.) — Increase proposed reductions in down payments on old or new homes purchased
under FHA loans. Standing vote, 102-93.
(April 2)
Jesse P. Wolcott (R Mich.) — Exempt from conflict of interest statutes voluntary  members of the National
Voluntary Mortgage  Credit Extension Committee and its subsidiaries. Voice vote.
Wolcott — Several minor technical amendments which Wolcott said were designed to correct oversights. Voice.
Wright Patman (D Tex.) — Delete Title II which would have: Authorized the President to set maximum interest rates
on most mortgages insured by the FHA and VA at 2.5 per cent plus the average yield of long-term government
bonds; authorized the President to revise other mortgage  terms; permitted a veteran to draw on unused parts of
his long-guarantee entitlement for housing repairs. Standing, 141-68.
John C. Watts (D Ky.) — Extend for five years, to March 1, 1959, G provision permitting waiver of certain
qualifications for veterans applying for low-cost public housing. Voice.
Edgar W. Hiestand (R Calif.) — Provide a formula for federal-local cooperation in liquidation of public-housing projects
when the local community would decide to liquidate. Voice.
Ralph W. Gwinn (R N.Y.), as modified by substitute proposed by John W. McCormack (D Mass.) — Require
certification by beneficiaries of federal housing programs that they are not members of subversive organizations
listed by the Attorney General. Voice.
Albert Rains (D Ala.) — Require sellers of housing under federal programs to give purchasers warrantees that the
housing conforms to plans and specifications. Voice.
Richard Bolling (D Mo.) — Delete section, which would have waived, in certain cases, veterans' preference rights for
purchase of some permanent war housing. Standing, 118-56.
Wingate H. Lucas (D Tex.) — Require preference in housing programs to old-age pensioners. Standing, 66-54.
AMENDMENTS REJECTED
(April 1)
Abraham J. Multer (D N.Y.) — Strike from the bill a provision authorizing the President to lower the amount of 
mortgage  down payments if he felt the economic situation required it. Standing, 140-142.
Multer — Require mortgagor to certify the actual cost of physical improvements on FHA insured property. Voice.
Multer — Require builder to certify the actual cost of physical improvements on FHA insured property except in the
case of old houses. Voice.
Multer — Remove language authorizing service charges. Voice.
Multer — Limit service charges to one-half of one per cent. Standing, 79-131.
(April 2)
Multer — Require that mortgages be based on the “lesser of either the appraised value or the estimated cost of”
cooperative housing, rather than on “estimated value.” Voice.
Multer — Delete section repealing a law authorizing advance commitments by FHA on mortgages insured for
cooperative housing for minority groups.
Albert Rains (D Ala.) — Delete Title III — which would reorganize the FNMA — and continue FNMA operations as at
present, increasing its funds authorization from $3,650,000,000 to $4,150,000,000. Standing, 91-105; teller, 139-149.
Walter Rogers (D Tex.) — Allow advance commitments (one-for-one) on mortgages in FNMA's liquidation portfolio.
Standing, 79-89; teller, 129-129. (The teller vote was 129-128, but the Chairman of the Committee of the Whole —
see glossary — voted “nay,” creating a tie and defeating the amendment.)
Brent Spence (D Ky.), proposed substitute for amendment by William B. Widnall (R N.J.) — Authorize new starts on
35,000 units of low-rent public housing annually in fiscal 1955 through 1958. Standing, 64-180.
7/2/09 12:01 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal54-1357795&type=hitlist&num=0
Widnall — Authorize fiscal 1955 commitments for 35,000 new units of public housing, with construction to start in
fiscal 1956. Standing, 89-138; teller, 72-164.
Chet Holifield (D Calif.), proposed substitute for amendment by O. C. Fisher (D Tex.) — Authorize the President to
establish ceilings on wage levels for occupants of low-rent public housing, considering such factors as size of
family, cost of living, and local wage level. Voice.
Fisher — Set the maximum wage level for admission to low-rent public housing at $2,000, and for continued
occupancy at $2,300. Voice.
Spence — Require that the Surgeon General exercise authority over health and sanitation in planning for urban
development and public works under the section providing for federal assistance. Voice.
Wayne L. Hays (D Ohio) — Increase authorizations for such aid from $5 million to $10 million for urban planning, and
from $10 million to $20 million for public-works planning. Voice.
Jacob K. Javits (R N.Y.), proposed substitute for amendment by Adam C. Powell, Jr. (D N.Y.) — Require consideration
of minority needs in issuing mortgage  insurance, and forbid discrimination and segregation. Voice.
Powell — Forbid establishment of conditions for housing assistance on the basis of discrimination against minorities.
Standing, 74-113.
Senate
Committee. Banking and Currency.
Hearings. Opened March 9 on S 2938 and continued intermittently until May 18.
Testimony
March 9. Sen. Burnet R. Maybank (D S.C.) offered an amendment to restore legal authority for construction of up to
135,000 public-housing units annually, through repeal of amendments to the First Independent Offices Appropriation
Act for Fiscal 1954 (P.L. 176 —see CQ Almanac, Vol IX, 1953, pp. 141 ff.) Maybank said the nation had been done
“a gross injustice” by the appropriations amendments and contended that the future of public housing should not be
left to appropriations committees.
Albert M. Cole, administrator of the Housing and Home Finance Agency, and Guy T. O. Hollyday, commissioner of
the Federal Housing Administration, supported the bill.
March 10. Cole said 35,000 units a year would solve the nation's “bedrock” public-housing problem, though he
conceded that that rate of construction would fall short of “the needs of many people.”
Sens. Irving M. Ives (R N.Y.) and Paul H. Douglas (D Ill.) said a four-year public-housing program would be
inadequate. Douglas called for 135,000 a year.
Other witnesses testifying for the bill were: Charles E. Slusser, commissioner, Public Housing Administration; and J.
Stanley Baughman, president, Federal National Mortgage  Association.
Military, Veterans' Housing
March 11. John M. Ferry of the Air Force Department requested extension of legislation which provided low-rent
housing for military personnel. He said there was “a deficiency of approximately 400,000 units” of family housing for
servicemen, and said about 35 per cent of Air Force personnel who drop out leave “because of unsatisfactory living
conditions.” (See “Military Housing,” page 314.)
T. B. King of the Veterans Administration recommended passage of a bill (S 2889) to extend the law under which
VA makes housing and farm loans to veterans. Sen. John J. Sparkman (D Ala.), the bill's sponsor, complained of long
waiting periods for veterans seeking such loans. (See “GI Home Loans,” page 319.)
March 12. Cole advocated “continued building” of low rent units and reported the average income of families living in
public housing in 1952 was $1,986 yearly. He said the Administration's program called for emphasis on “workable
programs” supplied by cities which were seeking federal aid in slum clearance. He added that the Administration
insisted federal aid was justified only “for those communities which are willing to face up to the problems of
neighborhood decay and to undertake programs directed to its prevention.”
Cole reported that 887 local housing authorities in 1,228 localities had active slum clearance projects under way.
March 15. Elmer Henderson, director, American Council on Human Rights, asked that the bill contain specific
language assuring minority groups the opportunity to buy homes with FHA mortgages. He said the real estate
industry had discriminated against Negroes and “very little” new housing had been available to minority groups.
Norman P. Mason, chairman, construction and development department committee, U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
said the Chamber was in “hearty accord with the aims of this legislation.”
Mortgage  Bankers
March 16. William A. Clarke, president, Mortgage  Bankers Association, testified against giving the President
authority to adjust interest rates on government-insured or guaranteed mortgage  loans, because it might result
in the substitution of “political considerations for market considerations” in determining rates. He advocated a
committee to fix rates and keep them in line with market considerations. He also objected to a section authorizing
7/2/09 12:01 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 9 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal54-1357795&type=hitlist&num=0
committee to fix rates and keep them in line with market considerations. He also objected to a section authorizing
40-year loans without down payment.
March 17. Miles D. Kennedy, director, national  legislative committee, American Legion, said veterans preferred
a definite, fixed ceiling on interest rates instead of the proposed flexible formula, tied to the average rate of interest
in long term government securities. He said the Legion also opposed ending veterans' preference in the sale of
surplus housing.
Clair W. Ditchy, president, American Institute of Architects, said his organization endorsed the bill “as a whole.”
However, he added, the 40-year no-down-payment plan could “permit and even encourage the slums of the future.”
Americans for Democratic Action national  director, Edward D. Hollander, termed the slum clearance proposals
unworkable and said the bill “offers nothing to provide low cost housing for low income families.”
March 18. James G. Thimmes, chairman of the CIO Housing Committee, said the Administration gave the
impression that it was aiming at one million new housing starts a year, but that the need was for double that
amount. He urged more housing for families with incomes of $2,500 to $6,000 and said the 40-year loan plan,
without down payments, was unrealistic because of a $7,000 limit imposed for most areas. He criticized proposals
to add a one-half per cent service charge to the normal FHA interest and insurance rate and to give the President
power to fix interest rates on FHA and Veterans Administration guaranteed loans.
March 19. Carrol M. Shanks, president, Prudential Insurance Co. of America, recommended amending the Federal 
National Mortgage  Association provisions to permit a voluntary  program providing mortgage  financing
in areas and for groups having difficulty in securing such financing.
March 22. William T. Wallace, Chamber of Commerce, Peru, Ind., suggested amendments to permit a company or a
group of interested citizens to sponsor FHA-insured housing for their employees or citizens of a community.
March. 23. Charles E. Foster, Disabled American Veterans, testified against provisions in the bill which he said
would dilute existing veterans' preferences and against the flexible interest rates provision.
M.K.M. Murphy, U.S. Savings and Loan League, criticized the bill as “unnecessarily generous” to prospective home
buyers wanting FHA-insured mortgages, and protested against 30-year mortgages and smaller down payments on
some homes.
March 24. Ira S. Robbins, president, National  Housing Conference, called the bill inadequate for the nation's
need of more than two million homes. However, Henry DuLaurence, National  Apartment Owners Association,
said there was evidence the country might be past the crest of the housing boom and be overbuilt.
Mayor Russell G. Hileman, Michigan City, Ind., said his city was forced to abandon a slum-clearance project,
approved by the Housing Administration, after Congress failed to appropriate money for new public housing projects
in 1953.
Farm, Labor Spokesmen
E. B. Grantham, National  Institute of Farm Brokers, asked for more assistance in farm housing through
extension of FHA insurance to farm groups.
March 25. Boris Shishkin, American Federation of Labor, said there was a need for two million new homes yearly
until 1960 when, he estimated, population would have increased to 200 million.
Wallace J. Campbell, director, Washington office, Cooperative League of the U.S.A., also termed the
Administration's proposal inadequate. Harry Held, National  Association of Mutual Savings Banks, approved the
measure.
On subsequent days spokesmen for other private organizations testified. Among those approving the bill were:
James J. O'Malley, National  Savings and Loan League; and R. G. Hughes, National  Association of Home
Builders.
Amendments were recommended by Clarence Mitchell of the National  Association for the Advancement of
Colored People and Henry DuLaurence of the National  Apartment Owners Association, Inc.
Housing “Scandal”
On April 12 the Housing and Home Finance Agency announced that the Federal Housing Administration's home
repair loan and emergency rental project programs had been subject to abuses, and that an investigation had been
started.
The Senate Banking Committee April 14 postponed consideration of the housing bill and began hearings on the
alleged housing abuses (see “Housing Investigation,” page 227).
On May 17, the FHA sent the Senate Banking unit a set of proposed laws and regulations to eliminate “windfall
profits” for builders under FHA programs, and outlaw “fleecing” of home owners who use FHA-insured loans to make
home repairs.
Committee Votes
After the Banking Committee resumed its consideration of the housing bill, Committee Democrats held a private
meeting May 17 and agreed to propose a series of amendments designed to plug loopholes in existing housing
laws.
May 18. The Committee voted 12-3 to restore the “full intent” of the Housing Act of 1949, which authorized
construction of a total of 810,000 public housing units with a maximum 200,000 starts a year. Chairman Homer E.
7/2/09 12:01 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 10 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal54-1357795&type=hitlist&num=0
Capehart (R Ind.) said he and Sens. John W. Bricker (R Ohio) and Wallace F. Bennett (R Utah) voted against the public
housing provision.
The Committee voted unanimously to write in language to “make it absolutely impossible” for builders of FHA-
insured housing to reap “windfall profits” by getting an FHA-insured mortgage  loan in excess of the actual cost
of construction of the housing project, Capehart said. The provision was intended to compel builders to turn back
any part of the loan in excess of 90 per cent of actual building cost, and might require builders to certify actual costs
after construction had been completed.
The amendments were to HR 7839, which the House had passed April 2.
Bill Reported
As reported (S Rept. 1472) by the Senate Committee May 28, the bill would:
Restore the 1949 Public Housing goal of 810,000 units authorized and limit actual construction to not more than
200,000 units annually for those still unbuilt under the 1949 act (numbering over 600,000).
Continue existing terms and maturities for improvement and repair; provide insurance of 80 per cent on each loan;
permit loans to be insured for $6,000 on the purchase of trailers but limit FHA insurance to 75 per cent of the value.
Liberalize existing terms on sales housing by allowing a ratio of 95 per cent of the first $8,000 of value and 75 per
cent of the remainder; extend maturities up to 30 years; increase maximum loans on one and two-family dwellings
from $16,000 to $18,000, on three-family houses from $20,500 to $24,000 and four-family houses from $25,000 to
$30,000.
Require builders to certify costs on all rental-type housing to prevent “windfall” profits; increase the per-room 
mortgage  limit from $2,000 to $2,400 on elevator-type structures.
Provide a program for urban renewal to assist rehabilitation of existing dwellings and construction of new housing in
those areas.
Add a new program for men in the armed forces to get FHA-insured loans upon certification of need by the
Secretary of Defense.
Authorize open-end mortgages under FHA and VA insured mortgages.
Broaden the program for slum clearance and urban renewal by providing loans and grants for voluntary  repairs,
and reconstruction of streets.
Provide for establishment of a voluntary  home credit program instead of rechartering FNMA, to facilitate the
flow of mortgage  credit into remote areas.
Provide $5 million to HHFA for planning grants to encourage public works; provide loans from a fund of $10 million
to local and state groups for public works plans.
Require builders to furnish a warranty that dwellings were constructed in conformity with plans approved by FHA
and VA.
Floor Action
The Senate on June 3 debated and passed by a voice vote the omnibus housing bill after voting to grant President
Eisenhower's request for 35,000 new public housing starts each year for four years. Approval of the public housing
amendment was on a 66-16 roll-call vote (for voting, see page 250).
Debate
Sen. Capehart said the bill “should facilitate and encourage the construction of more and better homes in our cities,
suburbs and farm areas for the moderate-income and low-income groups who are most in need of better housing. It
should encourage the removal of slums in cities, and for the first time, should provide an organized and intelligent
method to prevent the spread of … slums.”
A. S. Mike Monroney (D Okla.) said he was “struck by the great disparity between the way Congress is treating rural
families … and (those) in urban areas … Congress is continuing to extend a feeble reed to the farm families.”
Herbert H. Lehman (D N.Y.) said that “while to a substantial degree we are taking care of persons with relatively
satisfactory and livable incomes, we are doing very little … for the people with low incomes … I do not think 35,000
units will even begin to solve the problem.”
Irving M. Ives (R N.Y.) called the measure “by far the most liberal housing bill that has ever been before the Senate
of the United States.”
Segregation Ruling
Burnet R. Maybank (D S.C.), author of the public housing proposal accepted by the Senate Banking Committee,
discussed the May 24 Supreme Court ruling against segregated public housing and declared:
“Now that the Supreme Court has seen fit to reverse an acceptable and workable pattern (on segregation) … I must
oppose my own amendment to the housing law and thereby abandon a fight to which my energies and devotion
have been dedicated for a quarter of a century, ever since the first public housing unit was built in my state … The
Supreme Court has brought about the denial of much needed benefits to the people for whom they are primarily
intended.”
7/2/09 12:01 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 11 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal54-1357795&type=hitlist&num=0
intended.”
He offered an amendment to delete the Committee's public housing provision and bar any new public housing
construction starts. It was rejected by voice vote.
Majority Leader William F. Knowland (R Calif.) offered a substitute for the Committee proposal to restore the 1949
authorization of 810,000 public housing units. Knowland's amendment embodied President Eisenhower's request for
35,000 public housing starts a year over a four-year period.
Paul H. Douglas (D Ill.) said that would be “totally inadequate” to cure the “disease of our modern cities” — the fact
that cities were “rotting away at the center from cancerous slums which are spreading outward.” He proposed
authorization of 75,000 public housing starts annually for four years, but the amendment was defeated by voice
vote. Knowland's amendment then was approved.
AMENDMENTS ACCEPTED
William F. Knowland (R Calif.) — Authorize 35,000 public housing construction starts a year from fiscal 1955 though
fiscal 1958. Roll call, 66-16.
Harry Flood Eyrd (D Va.) — (as modified) — Require lender to certify soundness of repair loan, include cost factor in
rent and sales formulas, require annual reports to Congress on slum-clearance, other changes. Voice.
A. S. Mike Monroney (D Okla.) — Authorize insurance of mortgages on farm homes constructed on plots of five or
more acres near a public highway. Voice.
AMENDMENTS REJECTED
Burnet R. Maybank (D S.C.) — Replace Committee's public housing provision with amendment barring any new public
housing construction commitments. Voice.
Paul H. Douglas (D Ill.) — (amendment to Knowland amendment) — Authorize 75,000 public housing construction
starts annually over a four-year period. Voice.
Conference
On June 7 in the House, Rep. Wolcott asked unanimous consent to send the housing bill to conference with the
Senate. Rep. O. C. Fisher (D Tex.) objected, and the House Rules Committee was requested to report a resolution
authorizing a conference on HR 7839.
The Rules Committee voted June 10 to report a resolution to send the bill to conference but to instruct House
conferees to hold firm on the House stand against the President's public housing program. However, the Rules
Committee reversed itself June 15 and reported a resolution (H Res 583 — H Rept. 1859) calling for a conference
with the Senate but giving House conferees no specific instructions.
The House June 17 approved the resolution by a 361-19 roll-call vote (for voting, see page 244).
Report
After conferring nearly a month, Senate-House conferees July 17 reported a compromise version of the housing bill
(H Rept. 2271) that provided for only 35,000 new public housing construction starts in fiscal 1955 with limitations on
where and for whom such housing could be built.
Five members of the conference committee. Sens. Irving M. Ives (R N.Y., and John J. Sparkman (D Ala.) and Reps.
Brent Spence (D Ky.), Albert Rains (D Ala.), and Paul Brown (D Ga.), refused to sign the report, objecting to the
compromise public housing provision.
The Conference agreed on these points of differences contained in the House and Senate bills:
Compromised on 35,000 units of new low-rent public housing construction for one year only, for use by persons
displaced by authorized slum-clearance or other government programs.
Retained the Senate provisions to prevent abuse on repair and improvement loans, but increased FHA insurance
coverage to 90 per cent, instead of 80 per cent. It retained the Senate language to continue existing terms and
maturities.
On new housing a compromise provided for FHA insured loans on a ratio of 95 per cent of the first $9,000 of value
and 75 per cent over $9,000 of value. On existing housing the loan ratio was fixed at 90 per cent of the first $9,000
and 75 per cent on the balance, and limited mortgage  loans to the amounts fixed by the House version.
Compromised on a provision to furnish purchasers a builder's warranty of “substantial conformity” with FHA-
approved specifications and plans; and to furnish purchasers with a written FHA appraisal of the property.
Retained the Senate version of a program for low cost suburban housing.
Retained the Senate program for rehabilitation and renewal in urban areas.
Retained the Senate provisions for mortgage insurance for servicemen.
Retained the Senate version on open-end mortgages.
Compromised on the Senate version for preventing “windfall” profits.
7/2/09 12:01 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 12 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal54-1357795&type=hitlist&num=0
Slightly modified the Senate provision on preventing use of FHA-insured housing for transient or hotel purposes.
Generally retained the Senate provisions for slum clearance and urban renewal.
Retained the House version on re-chartering the FNMA, with Senate additions.
Compromised on setting up an urban planning program and reserve of planned public works by financing the costs
of preliminary planning.
With small differences, adopted the Senate provision for loans to public agencies from a $50 million revolving fund.
House Action
The House July 20 adopted the conference report by a 358-30 roll-call vote (for voting see page 244).
Discussion centered on the compromise public housing provision. Rep. Brent Spence (D Ky.) declared that “the
President wanted 140,000 units of public housing distributed over four years at 35,000 a year. How anybody can say
that this conference report meets the President's views is more than I can understand.”
“Masterful Job”
Jesse P. Wolcott (R Mich.) called the compromise a “masterful job on public housing.” William M. Colmer (D Miss.)
declared that “in view of the provisions of the bill and the decision of the packed Supreme Court denying
segregation in (public housing) projects … it would be most difficult if not impossible for Members from my section
of our common country to vote for any number of units, regardless of how small.”
The issue was put to a vote when Spence offered a motion to recommit the conference report with instructions to
substitute for the proposed compromise “a provision carrying out the four-year program for 140,000 new public
housing units”. The recommittal motion was rejected on a 156-234 roll call.
Senate Action
The Senate July 28 by a 59-21 roll-call vote agreed to the conference report, thus clearing the bill for White House
action (for voting, see page 250).
Scoring the public housing provision, John J. Sparkman (D Ala.) called it the “planned execution” of the program.
Herbert H. Lehman (D N.Y.) charged that under the provision “you cannot have public housing unless you have slum
clearance. Chances are that you cannot get a slum-clearance project in much less than two years, whereas the
authorization for public housing runs out in one year.”
Leverett Saltonstall (R Mass.) said the compromise provision was “hedged about with so many qualifications and
restrictions as to amount not to one-fourth, but scarcely a 10th, of the President's program.” But Capehart said it
was the “most favorable” compromise the Senate could get the House to agree to.
Bill Signed
President Eisenhower signed the bill Aug. 2, calling it a “major advance toward meeting America's housing needs.”
“We shall need to continue our public housing program until the needs can be met by private industry,” he declared.
“Also, the Executive should have broader authority to adjust the terms on home loans to changing economic
conditions.”
Document Citation
"Omnibus Housing Act Of 1954." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal54-1357795. Originally
published in CQ Almanac 1954 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1955). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal54-
1357795 (accessed July 2, 2009).
Document ID: cqal54-1357795
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal54-1357795
© 1955, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
