7/2/09 11:18 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal56-1349948&type=hitlist&num=0
Document Outline
Non-Banking Business
Background
Senate
HR 6227 – Reported (H Rept 609) by
House Banking and Currency Committee
May 20, 1955.
Passed, with amendments, by the
House on a 371-24 roll-call vote June
14, 1955. (See 1955 Almanac, p. 152)
S 2577 – Reported, amended, by Senate
Banking and Currency Committee (S Rept
1095) July 25, 1955; additional
amendments reported March 6, 1956 (S
Rept 1095, part 2).
HR 6227 – Passed by voice vote of the
Senate, amended, April 25, 1956. (For
roll-call votes on amendments, see p.
164)
House agreed to Senate amendments
April 26, by voice vote.
P.L. 511 – Signed into law May 9.
Bank Holding  Companies
An article from CQ Almanac 1956
Congress in 1956 enacted legislation designed to preserve the independent banking system in the United States
and halt the growth of potential banking monopolies. The Bank Holding  Company Act of 1956 provided for
federal regulation of the creation and expansion of bank holding  companies and prohibited such companies,
with certain exceptions, from managing or controlling nonbanking assets unrelated to the banking business.
There was little Congressional opposition to the bill but some Congressmen said it was discriminatory because of
exemptions and exceptions. President Eisenhower, when he signed the bill May 9, called it a “step forward,” but said
it fell short of achieving its objectives because of “various exemptions and other special provisions which will require
the further attention of Congress.”
An estimated 46 bank holding  companies in the U.S. were subjected to federal regulation under the Act's
provisions. The law defined a bank holding  company as one which owned or controlled two or more banks, and
thus exempted an estimated 116 U.S. bank holding  companies which owned only one bank .
PROVISIONS – As enacted, the Bank Holding  Company Act
of 1956:
Defined a bank holding  company as: (1) a company which
directly or indirectly owned or controlled 25 percent or more of the
voting shares of two or more banks or of a bank holding
company; (2) a company which controlled the election of the
majority of the directors of two or more banks; (3) a company for
the benefit of whose shareholders or members, 25 percent or more
of the voting shares of two or more banks was held by trustees.
Specified that the definition of a bank holding  company did not
include certain operations and companies, including banks carrying
on normal trust business, certain investment companies, religious
and charitable organizations and companies with at least 80
percent of their total assets in the field of agriculture.
Prohibited bank holding  companies from acquiring assets of
any additional bank  located in another state unless the laws of
that state specifically authorized acquisition by out-of-state
companies.
Made it unlawful, without prior approval of the Federal Reserve
Board, for a company to become a bank holding  company.
Made it unlawful, without prior FRB approval, for a bank holding
 company to acquire voting shares in a bank  if, after
acquisition, the company would own or control, directly or indirectly,
more than 5 percent of the bank 's voting shares.
Made it unlawful, without prior FRB approval, for any bank holding  company or subsidiary, other than a bank
, to acquire all or substantially all of a bank 's assets or to merge or consolidate with any other bank
holding  company.
Exempted from the requirement for FRB approval, transactions involving the conduct of trust business, normal 
bank -lending operations and acquisitions by a bank holding  company of additional shares of a bank  in
which it already had majority control.
Permitted state or federal bank  supervisory authorities to file with the FRB a formal recommendation that the
 
7/2/09 11:18 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal56-1349948&type=hitlist&num=0
Permitted state or federal bank  supervisory authorities to file with the FRB a formal recommendation that the
proposed expansion of a bank holding  company be denied; required the FRB to hold a hearing if such a
recommendation was made and to approve or deny the proposed expansion by formal order; provided the right to
judicial review of such orders.
Non-Banking Business
Prohibited a bank holding  company from acquiring, after enactment of the law, ownership or control of any
voting shares of any company which was not a bank  or a bank holding  company.
Provided that existing bank holding  companies could not, for more than two years after enactment of the law,
retain control or ownership of any voting shares of a company not related to banking, or engage in a business other
than banking, managing or controlling banks, or furnishing services to a bank  of which it owned or controlled
25 percent or more of the voting shares.
Permitted the Federal Reserve Board to extend the two-year deadline for periods of not more than one year at a
time, up to a maximum of five years after enactment of the bill or five years after the date upon which a company
became a bank holding  company, whichever was later.
Permitted bank holding  companies to retain ownership and control of non-banking assets in specified cases
where such retention would not violate the purposes of the bill – including exemptions for tax-exempt labor,
agricultural and horticultural organizations and certain activities of bank holding  companies closely related to
banking.
Prohibited the borrowing of subsidiary bank  funds by a bank holding  company or by another subsidiary in
the bank holding  company system (so-called upstream or horizontal borrowing).
Amended the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 to provide tax exemptions for distributions of stock, securities and
other assets of non-banking businesses which a bank holding  company was required to divest itself of.
Subjected companies convicted of willful violation of the law's provisions to a fine of not more than $1,000 a day for
each day during which the violation continued; subjected individuals convicted of willful participation in a violation to
a fine of not more than $10,000 or imprisonment for not more than one year, or both.
Background
REFERENCES – “ Bank  Companies.” (1955 Almanac, p. 477)
While existing law provided federal regulatory control over individual banks, prior to enactment of the Bank
Holding  Company Act of 1956 there was only limited control over the activities of bank holding  companies
that managed or controlled banks. The Banking Act of 1933 provided a measure of federal regulation if the bank
holding  company controlled at least one member bank  of the Federal Reserve System, and only if the 
holding  company wished to vote the stock of that member bank . As of December, 1954 only 18 holding
company affiliate bank  groups were under the supervision of the Federal Reserve Board while more than 100 
bank holding  companies were not subject to supervision. The 1933 law did not prevent a bank holding
company from controlling non-banking interests.
Proponents of additional legislation contended that the existing law did not provide safeguards against undue
concentration of control of banking activities. Bills to regulate the activities of bank holding  companies had been
introduced in nearly every Congress since 1938 when President Franklin D. Roosevelt requested such legislation in
a special message to Congress. None of the bills was enacted and in 1955 Congress again began hearings on the
subject.
Hearings were held by the House Banking and Currency Committee Feb. 28 - March 8 and by the Senate Banking
and Currency Committee July 5 - 14. Legislation regulating bank holding  company activity was generally
supported by the Federal Reserve Board, the U.S. Comptroller of the Currency, the Independent Bankers
Association and the American Bankers Association; opposed were representatives of individual bank holding
companies, including the largest – Transamerica Corp. Certain provisions of the various bills before the two
committees were opposed by witnesses who otherwise supported the legislation.
Comparison of Bills
Similar bills were reported to the House May 20, 1955, (HR 6227 – H Rept 609) and to the Senate July 25 (S 2577
– S Rept 1095). There were two principal differences between the bills:
The House bill granted to bank  supervisory authorities – state authority for state banks and the Comptroller of
the Currency for national banks – the power to veto the proposed expansion of a bank holding  company,
regardless of the opinion of the Federal Reserve Board. The Senate bill gave the bank  supervisory authorities
an opportunity to file a formal recommendation with the FRB but left the final decision on expansion up to the FRB.
The Federal Reserve Board and the Comptroller of the Currency were opposed to the House provision.
7/2/09 11:18 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal56-1349948&type=hitlist&num=0
The House bill contained an absolute prohibition against the expansion of bank holding  companies across state
lines, while the Senate bill did not. The House version was supported by the Independent Bankers Association and
opposed by the American Bankers Association, the FRB and the Comptroller of the Currency.
The House passed HR 6227 June 14 by a roll-call vote of 371-24. The Senate did not act on S 2577 in 1955.
(1955 Almanac, p. 477)
President Eisenhower, in his 1956 Economic Report, asked Congress to pass legislation to require federal approval
of acquisition of banks by holding  companies.
Senate
COMMITTEE – Banking and Currency.
HEARINGS – Additional hearings were held Feb. 8 and 24, 1956, on S 2577.
TESTIMONY – Feb. 24 – President Frank N. Belgrano Jr. of Transamerica Corp., San Francisco, said it would be
“the rankest kind of discrimination to pass a bill which takes our property away and lets practically all others in the
same line of business continue to hold comparable investments.” Under the bill, he said, “Transamerica Corporation
would be required to divest assets which represent in value approximately 50 percent of its entire business…while
many bank holding  companies, as well as holding  companies owning savings and loan associations and
personal finance companies, would not be required to divest.”
ACTION – The Committee March 6 reported amendments to the tax provisions of the bill and a number of clarifying
and technical amendments (S Rept 1095, part 2). The Committee report said the amendments modified the bill's tax
provisions “so as to prevent abuse and… make them more flexible to meet legitimate business needs by aligning
them closer to similar provisions in the Internal Revenue Code of 1954.”
Floor Action
Following three days of debate, the Senate April 25 passed HR 6227 by voice vote, after substituting the amended
language of S 2577. By a roll-call vote of 58-18, the Senate accepted an amendment by Paul H. Douglas (D Ill.)
which barred bank holding  companies from acquiring a bank  in another state unless that state passed a
law permitting acquisition by out-of-state companies. (For voting, see chart, p. 164) Douglas said no such laws were
in existence. The amendment thus brought the Senate bill in line with House-passed provisions prohibiting
expansion across state lines.
An amendment to permit bank holding  companies to retain non-banking assets already held was rejected by a
roll-call vote of 12–69. Also rejected, by a 28–51 roll call, was an amendment to broaden the definition of a bank
holding  company to include companies owning only one bank .
Three amendments adopted by voice votes had the effect of exempting three specific bank holding  companies
in Kentucky, Georgia and Florida from the requirement that they get rid of their non-banking assets. Committee
amendments were accepted April 23 by voice vote.
Amendments Accepted
Alben W. Barkley (D Ky.) – Permit a bank holding  company to own stock of an investment company whose sole
business is investing in the securities of other companies, provided the investment company does not own more
than a specified percent and value of such securities (Barkley said the amendment would apply only to one
company in Kentucky); April 24. Voice vote.
Walter F. George (D Ga.) – Exempt from requirement that bank holding  companies get rid of non-banking
interests, shares lawfully acquired and owned, prior to enactment of the bill, by a bank  that owned a bank
holding  company or by any of its wholly owned subsidiaries (would apply only to one company in Georgia, George
said); April 24. Voice.
Paul H. Douglas (D Ill.) – Prohibit bank holding  companies from acquiring, directly or indirectly, assets of any
additional bank  located in another state unless the laws of that state specifically authorized acquisition by out-
of-state companies; April 24. Roll call, 58-18.
Spessard L. Holland (D Fla.) – Specify that no company shall be defined as a bank holding  company if at least
80 percent of its total assets were composed of holdings in the field of agriculture (would apply only to one company
in Florida, Holland said); April 25. Voice.
Amendments Rejected
Homer E. Capehart (R Ind.) – Permit bank holding  companies to retain non-banking assets acquired prior to
enactment of the bill; April 25. Roll call, 12–69.
Wayne Morse (D Ore.) – Revise definition of a bank holding  company to include companies owning or
controlling 25 percent or more of the shares of one or more banks; April 25. Roll call, 28–51.
7/2/09 11:18 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal56-1349948&type=hitlist&num=0
Morse – Provide that the filing with the Federal Reserve Board by any company of an application for exemption on
the ground that it was not a bank holding  company would exempt such company from provisions of the bill until
the application had been acted upon by the FRB; April 25. Voice.
Morse – Revise procedure to be followed by the FRB in disposition of an application to create or expand a bank
holding  company; April 25. Voice.
Morse – Prohibit the FRB from denying any application for exemption from divestiture provisions until the applicant
had been given due notice and granted an opportunity for a hearing; April 25. Voice.
Morse – Provide that the FRB could not deny any application for a tax relief certificate (under divestiture provisions)
without granting the applicant company an opportunity for a hearing; specify that the procedure provisions of the
Administrative Procedure Act would apply to all hearings when the applicant had requested a hearing; April 25.
Voice.
Morse – Grant subpena power to the FRB in connection with hearings held under provisions of the bill; April 25.
Voice.
Morse – Provide for extension of time limit within which divestiture of assets must be effected and during which tax
relief may be granted, pending final administrative or legal decisions; April 25. Voice.
DEBATE – April 24 – George, Holland and Barkley – Said their amendments would not violate the purposes of the
bill and, because of special conditions, the requirement for divestiture of non-banking assets was not warranted in
the case of one company in each of their states.
Douglas – Was “not happy” about the exemptions in the three amendments. “They came about in the play of
stresses and strains of banking and political life….”
A. Willis Robertson (D Va.) – Opposed the Douglas amendment, saying it would constitute a “federal freeze on future
( bank holding  company) expansion without regard to the merits of each individual case.”
Douglas – Holding  companies had been expanding “rapidly” since 1955. “Transamerica has been extending its
empire…and has banks in 10 states…. What the bill with my amendment does is to check a rising trend to
monopoly without undoing it completely.”
April 25 – Capehart – The bill was “unfair” because of its exemptions and the fact that holding  companies
owning only one bank  did not have to get rid of their non-banking assets. “We ought to treat all companies
alike… (permitting them) to retain their non-banking assets under certain rules and regulations.'
Morse – The bill lacks procedural safeguards and is “notoriously guilty of unfair discrimination…. Some of the one-
bank companies that are exempted have great industrial empires.”
Robertson – “It is a physical impossibility to frame a bill which will please everyone…. The bill is pleasing and
acceptable to all the independent bankers. They were the ones who for 18 years were asking Congress to enact
legislation on this subject.”
J.W. Fulbright (D Ark.) – “Every moment wedelay (enactment of the bill)…we are aiding the growth of potential
banking monopolies.”
House Action
The House concurred in Senate amendments to HR 6227 April 26, by voice vote and without debate, clearing the
bill for the President.
Document Citation
"Bank Holding Companies." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal56-1349948. Originally published in
CQ Almanac 1956 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1957). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal56-1349948
(accessed July 2, 2009).
Document ID: cqal56-1349948
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal56-1349948
© 1957, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
