+ 2(,1 1/,1(
Citation:  73 Stat.  1959
Content downloaded/printed from 
HeinOnline (http://heinonline.org)
Mon Aug 10 14:49:19 2009
-- Your use of this HeinOnline PDF indicates your acceptance
   of HeinOnline's Terms and Conditions of the license
   agreement available at http://heinonline.org/HOL/License
-- The search text of this PDF is generated from 
   uncorrected OCR text.
PUBLIC LAW 86-374--SEPT. 23, 1959
"k. Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the authority
of any State or local agency to regulate activities for purposes other
than protection against radiation hazards.
"1. With respect to each application for Commission license author-
izing an activity as to which the Commission's authority is continued
pursuant to subsection c., the Commission shall give prompt notice to
the State or States in which the activity will be conducted of the filing
of the license application; and shall afford-Teasonable opportunity for
State representatives to offer evidence, inteirogate witnesses, and
advise the Commission as to the application. without requiring such
representatives to take a position for or against the granting of the
application.
"in. No agreement entered into under subsection b., and no exemp-
tion granted pursuant to subsection f., shall affect the authority of the
Commission under subsection 161 b. or i. to issue rules, regulations, or
orders to protect the common defense and security, to protect restricted
data or to guard against the loss or diversion of special nuclear mate-
rial. For purposes of subsection 161i., activities covered by exemp-
tions granted pursuant to subsection f. shall be deemed to constitute
activities authorized pursuant to this Act; and special nuclear material
acquired by any person pursuant to such an exemption shall be deemed
to have been acquired pursuant to section 53.
"n1. As used in this section, the term 'State' means any State, Terri-
tory, or possession of the United States, the Canal Zone, Puerto Rico,
and the District of Columbia."
SEC. 2. Section 108 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 is amended
by deleting the phrase "distributed under the provisions of subsection.
53a.," from the second sentence.
Approved September 23, 1959.
Notice of filing.
42 USC 2201.
42 USC 2073.
Definition.
42 USC 2138.
Public Law 86-374
AN ACT September 23, 1959
To promote and preserve local management of savings and loan associations by [H. R. 7244]
protecting them against encroachment by holding companies.
Be it enacted by the Senate and Howse of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled, That title IV of the
National Housing Act, as amended (12 U.S.C., sec. 1724 et seq.), is
amended by adding at the end thereof the following new section:
"REGULATION OF HOLDING COMPANIES
"SEC. 408. (a) (1) As used in this section, the term 'company' means
any corporation, business trust, association, or similar organization,
but does not include the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corpora-
tion, any partnership, or any company the majority of the shares of
which is owned by the United States or by any State.
"(2) As used in this section (except when used in subsection (f)),
the term 'stock' means nonwithdrawable stock, underlying owner-
ship stock other than mutual shares in a mutual institution, perma-
nent stock, guaranty stock, or stock of a similar nature (as defined by
the Federal Home Loan Bank Board by regulation) by whatever
name called.
"(3) For the purposes of this section, a company shall be con-
sidered as having control of an institution or other organization if
such company owns, controls, or holds with power to vote more than
Savings and loan
holding com-
panies.
Regulation.
48 Stat. 1255.
Definitions.
.78 STAT.]
HeinOnline -- 73 Stat. 691 1959
PUBLIC LAW 86-874-SEPT. 28, 1959
10 per centum of the stock of such institution or other organization,
or if the Federal Home Loan Bank Board determines, after reason-
able notice and opportunity for hearing, that such company directly
or indirectly exercises a controlling influence over the management and
policies of such institution or other organization.
Insurance app11 - "(b) (1) The Corporation shall reject any application made for
cations. insurance under this title on or after the date of the enactment of this
section if it finds that the applicant is controlled by any company
which also controls any insured institution or any other applicant for
insurance.
"(2) If an application of any institution for insurance under this
title is approved on or after the date of the enactment of this section,
and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board subsequently determines,
after reasonable notice and opportunity for hearing, that at the time
of such approval such institution was controlled by a company which
also controlled another insured institution (or another applicant for
insurance if the application of such other applicant was approved),
the Board shall either-
" (A) terminate the insured status of such institution; or
"(B) require such company, in the manner provided in sub-
section (e) of this section, to dispose of so much of the stock
of such institution, or take such other action, or both, as may
be necessary to divest itself of its control of such institution.
If the insured status of an institution is terminated under subpara-
12 usC 1730. graph (A), the provisions of section 407 relating to continuation of
insurance of accounts, examination by the Corporation during the
period of such continuation, final insurance premium, and notice to
insured members shall be applicable as though the termination had
been ordered under such section 407.
Restrictions. "(c) It shall be unlawful for any company on or after the date
of the enactment of this section-
"(1) to acquire the control of more than one insured institu-
tion; or
"(2) to acquire the control of an insured institution when it
holds the control of any other insured institution.
Acquisition of "(d) Any company may, without regard to subsection (c), acquire
stock. stock pursuant to a pledge or hypothecation to secure a loan or in
connection with the liquidation of a loan, but it shall be unlawful
for any such company to retain for more than one year any control
the acquisition of which by such company would, except for this
subsection, have been unlawful under subsection (c).
Violations, legal "(e) If, in the opinion of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, any
action. company holds control of an institution and such control was acquired
in violation of subsection (c) or retained in violation of subsection (d),
it shall give such company notice that if it does not divest itself of
such control within thirty days an action will be brought to force the
divestiture thereof. Notice given to such institution shall constitute
notice to such company for purposes of the preceding sentence. If
such company does not dispose of so much of the stock of such institu-
tion, or take such other action, or both, as may be necessary to divest
itself of such control within thirty days after the receipt of such
notice, the Board shall, without regard to any statute of limitation,
institute in the United States district court for the district in which
the principal office of such institution is located, and prosecute to
final satisfaction, an action to require divestiture of such control.
Process in any such action may be served in any district in which
such company transacts business or wherever it may be found. The
[78 STAT.
HeinOnline -- 73 Stat. 692 1959
PUBLIC LAW 86-874-SEPT. 28, 1959
United States district courts shall have jurisdiction of all actions
brought under this subsection and, in view of the fact that the ques-
tions involved are of general public importance, shall hear and deter-
mine such actions with all reasonable promptness. Any such action
shall be brought by the Federal Home Loan Bank Board in its own
name and may, in the discretion of the Board, be prosecuted through
its own attorneys. All expenses of the Board under this subsection
shall be considered as nonadministrative expenses.
"(f) It shall be unlawful, on or after the date of the enactment of
this section, for any insured institution which is controlled by a
company-
"(1) to invest any of its funds in the stock, bonds, debentures,
or other obligations of such company or of any other organization
controlled by such company;
"(2) to accept the stock, bonds, debentures, or other obligations
of such company, or of any other organization controlled by such
company, as collateral security for advances made to such com-
pany or organization or to any other person; except that such
institution may accept, and hold for a period not exceeding two
years, such stock, bonds, debentures, or other obligations as secu-
rity for debts contracted prior to the acquisition of such control;
"(3) to purchase securities or other assets or obligations under
repurchase agreement from such company or from any other
organization controlled by such company; and
"(4) to make any loan, discount, or extension of credit to such
company or to any other organization controlled by such company.
Except as otherwise provided by regulation by the Federal Home Loan
Bank Board, a non-interest-bearing deposit with a bank, to the credit
of an insured institution, shall not be deemed to be a loan, discount,
or extension of credit to such bank for purposes of this subsection.
As used in this subsection, the term 'organization' means a corporation,
business trust, association, partnership, or similar organization.
"(g) (1) This section shall terminate May 31, 1961.
"(2) The Federal Home Loan Bank Board shall make a full and
complete survey of all aspects of savings and loan holding companies,
and shall submit a report to the Committees on Banking and Cur-
rency of the Senate and the House of Representatives not later than
May 31, 1960. This survey shall include studies of the nature, growth,
effects and future prospects of savings and loan holding companies,
including particularly the extent to which they may have become, or
may in the future become, injurious or detrimental to free competition
in the field of mortgage lending or in any related field. The report on
this survey shall contain a full statement on these matters, together
with recommendations for further legislation on this subject. In par-
ticular, the report shall review and make recommendations on the
legislative proposals submitted at the hearings of the Committees on
Banking and Currency on H.R. 7244, Eighty-sixth Congress, includ-
ing particularly the need for and feasibility of requiring divestment
of part or all of the savings and loan associations already acquired or
part or all of the other interests of such holding companies, the need
for and feasibility of requiring such holding companies to limit
their activities or their future acquisitions to a specified distance
from their principal offices, and the desirability and feasibility of
regulating and controlling further acquisitions of such holding com-
panies, as compared with prohibiting further acquisitions by such
holding companies."
Approved September 23, 1959.
Restrictions.
Termination.
R~eport to Con-
gress.
78 STATJ]
HeinOnline -- 73 Stat. 693 1959
PUBLIC LAW 86-375-SEPT. 23, 1959
Public Law 86-375
September23, 1959 AN ACT
CH. R. 5711J Granting the consent and approval of Congress to the Wabash Valley Compact,
and for related purposes.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
w ab a a h valey United States of America in Congress assembled, That the consent of
Compact. Congress is hereby given to the States of Illinois and Indiana for the
compact, known as the Wabash Valley Compact (Laws of Indiana,
1959, chapter 3, approved February 26, 1959, House Enrolled Act
No. 22; Laws of Illinois, 1959, approved March 20, 1959, Senate Bill
No. 78), in the form as follows:
"THE WABASH VALLEY COMPACT
"ARTICLE I
"FINDINGS AND PURPOSE
"The party states find that the Wabash Valley has suffered from a
lack of comprehensive planning for the optimal use of its human and
natural resources and that underutilization and inadequte benefits
from its potential wealth are likely to continue until there is proper
organization to encourage and facilitate coordinated development of
the Wabash Valley as a region and to relate its agricultural, indus-
trial, commercial, recreational, transportation, development and other
problems to the opportunities in the Valley. To this end it is the
purpose of the party states to recoanize and provide for such develop-
ment and coordination and to estaiblish an agency of the party states
with powers sufficient and appropriate to further regional planning
for the Valley.
"ATIcLE II
4 THE VALLEY
"As used in this compact, the term 'Wabash Valley' shall mean the
Wabash River, its tributaries and all land drained by said river and
tributaries, to whatever extent they lie within the party states.
"ARTICLE III
cTHE WABASH VALLEY INTERSTATE COMMISSION
"(a) There is hereby created an agency of the party states to be
known as the Wabash Valley Interstate Commission (hereinafter
called the Commission). The Commission shall be composed of seven
Commissioners from each party state designated or appointed in ac-
cordance with the law of the state which they represent and serving
and subject to removal in accordance with such law. The federal
government may be represented without vote if provision is made by
federal law for such representation.
"(b) The Commissioners of the party states shall each be entitled
to one vote in the Commission. No action of the Commission shall
be binding unless taken at a meeting in which a majority of the
members from each party state are present and unless a majority of
those from each state concur, provided that any action not binding
for such a reason may be ratified within thirty days by the concur-
rence of a majority of each state. In the absence of any Commis-
sioner, his vote may be cast by another representative or Commis-
[78 STAT.
HeinOnline -- 73 Stat. 694 1959
