7/2/09 11:56 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 15http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1373425&type=hitlist&num=1
Document Outline
President's Message
Securities and Exchange
Federal Communications
FCC Reorganization  Bill
Civil Aeronautics Board
Federal Trade Commission
National Labor Relations Bd
Home Loan Bank Board
Federal Maritime Board
ICC Reorganization
S 153 – Reported by Senate Government
Operations Committee (S Rept 28) Jan.
30, 1961.
Passed by the Senate by voice vote
Feb. 6.
HR 5742 – Reported by House
Government Operations Committee (H
Rept 195) March 23.
S 153 – Passed by the House by voice
vote March 29.
PL 87-18 – Signed into law April 7.
Reorganization Act
An article from CQ Almanac 1961
Before the reorganization  plans could be submitted, Congress first had to provide the authority by reinstating
the Reorganization Act  of 1949. S 153 reinstated the Act  and extended it to June 1, 1963. The Act
authorized the President to submit to Congress plans to reorganize Government agencies through transfer, abolition
or consolidation of agency functions. It provided that each plan would take effect automatically within 60 days unless
disapproved by simple majority vote of either the House or Senate. Under the Act , plans are referred to the
Government Operations Committees. Hearings are required only when a resolution disapproving a plan is
introduced.
The Reorganization Act  was extended for two-year periods in 1953, 1955 and 1957 but it expired in 1959,
when Senate action on a House-passed bill to extend it was blocked by Sen. Russell B. Long (D La.). (1959 Almanac
p. 308) During Feb. 6, 1961 Senate debate, Long said he agreed “a new Administration, for a period of time, should
have power to submit reorganization  plans.”
The Act 's extension, with amendment, was recommended by
Landis, who proposed that disapproval by both chambers should be
necessary to kill a plan. The Budget Bureau asked that Congress
make the Act  permanent and require a vote by a majority of
the full membership of one house (a constitutional majority) rather
than a simple majority vote to kill a plan. Although this latter
proposal and a four-year extension were endorsed by the House
Government Operations Executive and Legislative 
Reorganization  Subcommittee when it ordered S 153 reported to
the full Committee, the Subcommittee later rescinded these
amendments.
During the Feb. 6 Senate debate on S 153, Chairman Warren G.
Magnuson (D Wash.) of the Commerce Committee protested that
his Committee had jurisdiction over most of the independent
regulatory agencies but that reorganization  plans pertaining to
them would be referred to the Government Operations Committee.
Chairman John L. McClellan (D Ark.) of the Government Operations
Committee assured Magnuson that he had no objection “to having
the committee which has jurisdiction of the subject matter
concerned study such a plan and also make its recommendations.” He said if any committee were to present a
resolution of disapproval or a plan to his Committee, it would “certainly be quite an influence.”
Congress March 29 completed action on S 153 and President Kennedy signed it into law April 7. He said the Act
 restored a “long accepted and useful procedure” and placed responsibility for initiating “needed action” upon the
Executive “without affecting the right of Congress to scrutinize and legislate in this area.”
In a related development, a White House move to bring the agencies into closer contact with it aroused criticism in
Congress.
The White House March 14 released the text of a Feb. 7 letter sent to all Executive agencies and departments by
special presidential assistant Frederick G. Dutton requesting brief monthly reports to the President on “important
 
7/2/09 11:56 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 15http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1373425&type=hitlist&num=1
special presidential assistant Frederick G. Dutton requesting brief monthly reports to the President on “important
policy and administrative action taken or proposed, and of concern to him as Chief Executive or in his other
Constitutional responsibilities.” The letter said President Kennedy was “particularly interested in having major
problems of the agency flagged for his attention.” Dutton's letter said decisions pending before independent boards
or commissions should not be included.
The letter brought protests in the House March 14 from some Congressmen. Rep. William H. Avery (R Kan.) said it
was “the boldest trespass upon the independence of the regulatory agencies that has become a matter of record
since the Interstate Commerce Commission was authorized in 1887.” Rep. William L. Springer (R Ill.) called for a
Congressional investigation and said the sending of the letter was a “flagrant violation of the separation of the
legislative and the executive departments.” Supporting the White House action, Rep. Oren Harris (D Ark.) said the
President “is asking only general information to carry out his own responsibility of seeing that the laws are
adequately and fairly administered.”
President's Message
President Kennedy April 13 sent to Congress a special message on the regulatory agencies. He said in recent years
there had been a lack of necessary cooperation between Congress and the President in the discharge of their
respective responsibilities toward the agencies; that the agencies were designed to preserve a “balanced
competitive economy” and also to “further the expansion of certain facets of the economy,” and fulfillment of these
essential functions had been seriously handicapped by lack of coordination of regulatory practices, internal dilution of
responsibility and delays in the disposition of business. (For text, see p. 907)
The President said he would send to Congress the following recommendations: provide agency chairmen with
“broad managerial powers” to correct the existing, diffused authority on the commissions; provide that all agency
chairmen serve in that capacity at the President's pleasure; and, authorize delegation of a large proportion of agency
responsibilities to intra-agency boards and hearing examiners to eliminate needless work on “unimportant details” at
the top level.
He also asked Congress to improve the stature and quality of hearing examiners by raising the top salary level and
providing an additional $500 per annum to the chief hearing examiner.
To clear the Federal Power Commission docket of an unprecedented number of pending rate increase cases he
called for certain exemptions from hearings and rate regulations, an increase in the number of FPC commissioners
from five to seven and increased agency authority in specific rate cases as they concerned return of payments to
consumers.
The President requested wider agency adoption of the practice of holding agency members individually responsible
for formulating the rationale for major decisions and releasing decisions publicly under the member's name.
Although many of the revisions were similar to those in the Landis report, the message made no specific mention of
these Landis proposals: creation of an Office of Oversight in the Executive Office; establishment of special offices in
the White House for policy on transportation, telecommunications, energy resources; establishment by executive
order of a federal employee code of ethics limiting ex parte representations in regulatory agency cases.
The President said that to develop a continuing process of reforming agency procedures he would call an
Administrative Conference of the United States. He said it would be modeled after the Judicial Conference of the
U.S., which had been in existence since 1922, that it would bring together leading members of regulatory agencies,
lawyers and other experts, would be provided with a Secretariat through the Justice Department, and would
determine its own perpetuation.
Administrative Conference
In keeping with the announcement, the President April 29 named 11 members to serve on the Council of the
Administrative Conference of the U.S. He appointed as chairman Judge E. Barrett Prettyman of the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia.
Other members: Manuel F. Cohen, director, Division of Corporation Finance, SEC, and later an SEC commissioner;
Prof. Walter Gellhorn, Columbia University; Joseph P. Healy, vice president-general counsel of Boston-Edison Co.;
Everett Hutchinson, chairman, ICC; James M. Landis, special assistant to the President; John D. Lane, member of
the law firm of Hedrick and Lane, Washington, D.C.; Prof. Earl Latham, Amherst College; Carl McGowan, member
of the law firm Ross, McGowan and O'Keefe, Chicago, Ill.; Prof. Nathaniel L. Nathanson, Northwestern University,
and Max D. Paglin, general counsel, FCC.
Securities and Exchange
President Kennedy's Reorganization  Plan No. 1, for the Securities and Exchange Commission, was rejected.
The defeat came when the Senate June 21 upheld a resolution disapproving the plan. Although the House had in
effect approved the plan June 15 when it rejected a similar resolution, disapproval by one chamber was sufficient to
defeat a reorganization  plan.
Although a more restricted version of the President's plan for the SEC was passed by the Senate Sept. 1, without
7/2/09 11:56 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 15http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1373425&type=hitlist&num=1
Although a more restricted version of the President's plan for the SEC was passed by the Senate Sept. 1, without
opposition, the House took no action on it.
Submitting the SEC plan to Congress April 27, the President said it provided for “greater flexibility in the handling of
the business before the Commission, permitting its disposition at different levels so as better to promote its efficient
dispatch.”
The plan, in its major provisions: permitted the Commission, in order to reduce its backlog of cases, to delegate
decision-making on quasi-judicial and rulemaking actions to a panel of Commissioners, an indivddual Commissioner,
a hearing examiner, or an employee or employee board; provided for discretionary review by the Commissioners of
decisions reached at lower levels and stipulated that mandatory review of any lower-level action could be voted by a
majority of the Commissioners less one member; provided that the lower-level action would become final if the
Commission did not seek to review it; and transferred to the chairman the Commission's functions with respect to
the assignment of Commission personnel to perform such functions as were delegated under the plan.
Sec Action
Before Mr. Kennedy took office the SEC itself had taken a step towards reform when it announced that beginning
Jan. 16 the chairman would assign to individual Commissioners responsibility for preparing decisions backing the
agency's findings. In the past, the Office of Opinion Writing, staffed by attorneys, had drawn up decisions under
supervision of the Commissioners. In the future, the individual Commissioners would be responsible for the decision
and would have to sign it, the SEC said.
House
COMMITTEE – Government Operations, Executive and Legislative Reorganization  Subcommittee.
HEARING – May 18 on Reorganization  Plan No. 1. Under the Reorganization Act  hearings were required
when a disapproving resolution had been introduced. Rep. Clare E. Hoffman (R Mich.) May 10 introduced a
disapproving resolution (H Res 285), and a similar one (H Res 302) was introduced May 18 by Rep. John S.
Monagan (D Conn.)
TESTIMONY – SEC Chairman William L. Cary said the plan would be helpful in dealing with routine matters,
particularly applications for new stock registrations. He said the Commissioners probably never would delegate many
of their functions.
ACTION – The full Committee June 12 reported unfavorably H Res 302 (H Rept 509) (in effect upholding the 
reorganization  plan) and said the SEC must be given authority to streamline its operations. Reps. Hoffman, George
Meader (R Mich.) and John B. Anderson (R Ill.) dissented.
Floor Action
The House June 15 in effect approved the SEC Reorganization  Plan when it rejected H Res 302 by a 176-212
roll-call vote. Republicans voted unanimously in favor of the resolution (against the plan) and 21 Democrats joined
them in opposing the plan. (For voting see chart p. 528)
During debate, opponents said the plan would bring a “surrender” of Congress' authority over the SEC. Supporters
said the plan would in no way impair the agency's independence or Congress' power over it.
Senate
COMMITTEE – Government Operations.
ACTION – June 15 reported without recommendation a resolution (S Res 148 - S Rept 393) disapproving 
Reorganization  Plan No. 1 for the SEC.
The report said the Committee believed the plan involved matters of “serious and far-reaching importance and effect
which require far more study and deliberation than was possible under the time limitations.” (It was to take effect
June 27 unless vetoed by Congress.) The report noted that the Committee first had split, 3-3, on a vote to report the
resolution favorably; then had voted 4-2 to report it without recommendation. The Securities Subcommittee of the
Senate Banking and Currency Committee held a hearing on the plan June 2 but made no report on it.
Floor Action
The Senate June 21 rejected the SEC Reorganization  Plan when it adopted S Res 148 by a 52-38 roll-call
vote. Eighteen Democrats joined all of the 34 voting Republicans in supporting the disapproving resolution. Among
the Democrats opposing the plan were Chairman Harrison A. Williams Jr. (D N.J.) of the Banking and Currency
Securities Subcommittee and three of the four other Subcommittee Democrats. (For voting, see chart p. 584)
During debate, Senate opponents of the SEC plan emphasized the “sensitive” nature of SEC's relations with the
financial community. In view of this, they said, the plan's provision for the Commission to delegate its rulemaking
power was a “fatal defect,” since it would permit a “subordinate employee” to make a major decision which might
have serious repercussions on the economy. They pointed out that the plan was opposed by the New York, Boston
and American Stock Exchanges, and quoted testimony by Keith Funston, president of the New York exchange, that
7/2/09 11:56 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 15http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1373425&type=hitlist&num=1
and American Stock Exchanges, and quoted testimony by Keith Funston, president of the New York exchange, that
the SEC “should not be permitted to delegate to anyone its legislative powers or its life-and-death authority over so
important a segment of our economy.” They also called attention to testimony by SEC Chairman William L. Cary that
it was not his intention to delegate general rule-making powers, and said therefore there was no need to extend
such authority to the Commission.
Supporters of the plan contended Cary's views were an assurance there would be no abuse of power and that the
Administration should be upheld in its aim to streamline the SEC's operations.
DEBATE – June 21 – Jacob K. Javits (R N.Y.) – Securities regulation was “really a hold on the jugular vein of the
nation.” Under the plan “even a very subordinate employee…can so disturb the public atmosphere as to ruin or
make completely impotent any registration or any effort to sell securities, any refinancing or proxy solicitation
activity.”
Hubert H. Humphrey (D Minn.) – The Administration “would have been wiser if it had consulted a little more carefully
with some of the legislative committees” on the plan, but he did not believe the plan would be “injurious to the
public interest.”
Edmund S. Muskie (D Maine) – Opposed the plan because the SEC, “by its disclaimer of any intention to use such
broad powers, indicates its awareness of the undesirability of such broad delegation.”
Everett McKinley Dirksen (R Ill.) – What the Administration asked was “a blank check, for vague power, to sponge out
the right of review and to make it discretionary.”
Sec Reorganization  Bill
The Senate Sept. 1 passed by voice vote and sent to the House a bill (S 2135) to reorganize the Securities and
Exchange Commission in order to speed the handling of major cases. Although the bill provided most of the reforms
proposed by the President in the Reorganization  Plan, there was no opposition to S 2135 because it narrowed
the delegation of functions and stiffened requirements for review.
The bill was reported (S Rept 776) Aug. 24 by the Senate Banking and Currency Committee. The report included a
letter from SEC Chairman William L. Cary supporting the proposal.
The House took no action on S 2135.
Federal Communications
Reorganization  Plan No. 2, for the Federal Communications Commission, was rejected. The defeat came in the
House June 15, on a 323-77 roll-call vote. There was no Senate floor action on the plan.
Congress later approved legislation (S 2034) to expedite the FCC's handling of major cases, but the bill did not
provide the authority requested by the Administration for the FCC chairman.
Like the SEC plan, the plan for the FCC, which was sent to Congress by the President April 27, authorized
delegation of functions by the Commission, assignment of delegated functions by the chairman, and discretionary
review in some cases. It also abolished the review staff, which handled opinion-writing, in favor of reassignment of
the staff.
The FCC plan aroused the most controversy of the seven plans submitted, chiefly because both members of the
communications industry and Congress were antagonized by a May 9 speech by FCC Chairman Newton N. Minow.
In the speech, given before a meeting of the National Assn. of Broadcasters, Minow termed television programming
a “vast wasteland,” said he intended to see that the stations paid their “debt” to the public “with service,” and
declared there was “nothing permanent or sacred about a broadcast license” issued by the FCC. The speech
brought charges that Minow planned to set himself up as a one-man “censor” and that the FCC plan would
“establish a direct chain of political command” starting at the White House and leading to one-man “dictatorship.”
House
COMMITTEE – Government Operations, Executive and Legislative Reorganization  Subcommittee.
HEARING – May 19 on Reorganization  Plan No. 2. Disapproving resolutions were introduced by Rep. Hoffman
(R Mich.) May 10 (H Res 286) and Rep. Monagan (D Conn.) May 18 (H Res 303).
TESTIMONY – Minow said FCC reorganization  was needed to clear up an “abominable” administrative situation
caused by too much red tape; that he had “no interest whatever in the content of any particular program” on TV but
the FCC had had an interest in programming in general for some time. He said published comments about his NAB
speech, indicating he planned a censor's role for himself, “seriously misinterpreted” the address.
Minow said there was a “fundamental misconception” about the Chairman's power to assign delegated functions
under the plan, that “it is the Commission, not the Chairman, which determines the type of body or individual to
whom a particular matter shall be delegated; and only then does the Chairman decide who shall serve on the body
or be that individual.” He said even if a Chairman did abuse his assignment powers, “the short answer is the
7/2/09 11:56 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 15http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1373425&type=hitlist&num=1
or be that individual.” He said even if a Chairman did abuse his assignment powers, “the short answer is the
Commission, which can vote to reconsider any action it takes, would simply reverse its delegation and take up the
matters itself.” Minow said “the Chairman must act  fairly or the Commission will in effect withdraw his power to 
act ” and, in view of this, “the agency cannot be converted by this minor housekeeping provision.”
Minow said what the plan did was “to remove the present straitjacket, in order to enable the Commission to
concentrate on important matters and to cut down the Administrative lag.” “If flexibility is withheld, I do not believe
Congress can fairly continue much of its criticism of the administrative process,” he said.
FCC Commissioner John S. Cross supported the plan, and said “we have just about reached the point where we
have so much due process that we are too busy to work.”
Czar Envisioned
Rep. William H. Avery (R Kan.) said the plan would virtually create “a one-man Commission in the chairman” and let
the White House “dominate” the FCC through a “czar.”
Chairman Oren Harris (D Ark.) of the House Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee and the Special
Regulatory Agencies Subcommittee, which conducted hearings on the plan, objected specifically to two sections of
the plan which would: eliminate automatic review of initial decisions by the full Commission (in favor of giving the
Commission discretion to grant review on a vote of three of its seven members); abolish the FCC review staff, which
handles opinion-writing (in favor of reassignment of the staff). He said he did not oppose broadening delegation
authority of individual members because abuses would not be permitted by the majority.
NAB President LeRoy Collins, former governor of Florida (D 1955-61), filed a statement in which he said duties of
FCC commissioners “should be fixed by law, and should not be subject to enlargement or contraction by Executive
Order and Congressional passive indulgence.” He said the “ultimate goal and purpose” of the plan was “laudable,”
but the plan “essentially” was “well within the area of patchwork change.”
Robert M. Booth Jr., president of the Federal Communications Bar Assn., opposed the plan and said most of its
objectives could be achieved under the Communications Act  and Administrative Procedure Act .
RELATED DEVELOPMENT – Rep. Harris' Special Regulatory Agencies Subcommittee questioned FCC members in
executive session May 11, 16 and 17, and went on record May 18 as opposing the plan. Subcommittee member
William L. Springer (R Ill.) May 18 told the House five FCC commissioners opposed the plan during the hearings,
while only two, Minow and” Cross, favored it. He said Minow's NAB speech, together with the plan, “alarmed many
of us on the Subcommittee…because of the vast implications involved.” The hearings showed “the Chief Executive
would in effect control undiluted, in the White House, the powers now contained broadly within the Commission
itself,” Springer said.
Plan Disapproved
ACTION – The full Government Operations Committee June 1 reported H Res 303 (H Rept 446) disapproving 
Reorganization  Plan No. 2 for the FCC.
The report said although the Committee agreed with the “desirability” of the basic objectives of the plan, and “the
record demonstrates the need for action to attain them…yet, the Committee is not convinced that Reorganization
 Plan No. 2…could satisfactorily accomplish these objectives.” The report said there was a “danger of uncertainty
and confusion in the interpretation of the plan. It said the plan would have to be implemented within the format of
the 1946 Administrative Procedure Act  and the 1934 Communications Act , and the possible need for
legislative clarification might offset its effectiveness.
In view of these circumstances, the report said, the Committee gave added weight to the views of Commerce
Committee Chairman Harris, who had testified that the plan should be rejected “in order that there might be an
opportunity to amend the Communications Act  in the necessary particulars by the regular legislative process.”
In additional views, the Reorganization  Plan was supported by Democratic Committee members John E. Moss
(Calif.), Henry S. Reuss (Wis.) and Neal Smith (Iowa), and opposed by GOP members Clare E. Hoffman (Mich.),
George Meader (Mich.), Robert P. Griffin (Mich.), John B. Anderson (Ill.) and F. Bradford Morse (Mass.).
Broadcasters See Threat
Reps. Moss And Reuss Said They Believed The “Real Issue” Was That “Once Again The Broadcasters Have Been
Challenged By A Vigorous Chairman To Program In The Public Interest Or To Make Way For Those Who Are
Willing To Do So, And The Broadcasters, National Assn. Of Broadcasters, And Their Attorneys Are Giving Battle To
Defeat This Threat.”
The Republicans Said Reorganization  Plans No. 1-4 All Were Contrary To Congressional Intent In The 
Reorganization Act  Of 1949 That The Regulatory Agencies “Be Bipartisan, Independent Of And Not Subject To
The Political Whims Of The President.”
Floor Action
The House June 15 rejected Reorganization  Plan No. 2 for the FCC when it upheld, by a 323-77 roll-call vote
7/2/09 11:56 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 15http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1373425&type=hitlist&num=1
HR 7856 – Reported by House Interstate
and Foreign Commerce Committee (H
Rept 723) July 17, 1961.
S 2034 – Reported by Senate Commerce
Committee (S Rept 576) July 19.
Passed by the Senate, amended, by
voice vote July 27.
Passed by the House, amended, by a
The House June 15 rejected Reorganization  Plan No. 2 for the FCC when it upheld, by a 323-77 roll-call vote
(D 163-77; R 160-0), H Res 303, disapproving the plan. (For voting, see chart p. 528)
During debate, House Speaker Sam Rayburn (D Texas) added strength to the opposition when, in a statement from
the floor, he said he was against the plan “because it amends fundamental law and I think that is the function of the
Congress.” Other opponents reiterated charges that the plan would establish a one-man “dictatorship” and be a
“surrender” of Congressional authority. Supporters said there was no basis for these charges since the FCC
chairman's authority would be “tightly circumscribed” by the Commission itself. They also said current FCC
procedures were partly responsible for failure to provide adequate regulation of the television industry.
Acknowledging that the plan appeared doomed, its supporters endorsed a compromise measure (HR 7333)
introduced May 25 by Rep. Harris (D Ark.).
DEBATE – June 15 – Oren Harris (D Ark.) – Opposed the FCC plan because it would change “basic provisions” of
the Communications Act , whereas the SEC plan did not “trespass on” Congressional prerogatives.
John B. Bennett (R Mich.) – In the Sherman Adams case, Democrats considered even a phone call from the White
House improper, but President Kennedy's adviser James M. Landis testified he saw nothing wrong in making an
inquiry to an agency. If the Reorganization  Plans take effect, “when Landis gets through.…Sherman Adams will
look like a shrinking violet.”
Samuel S. Stratton (D N.Y.) – The FCC plan was an opportunity to improve the “situation on TV and we should
uphold the hand of the President.”
Chet Holifield (D Calif.) – The talk of dictatorial powers “sounds good on the record” but the powers given the
Chairman would be no greater than those given the head of any big business.
George Meader (R Mich.) – The President's aim was “to gain control over and destroy agency autonomy and
independence.”
Senate
COMMITTEE – Commerce, Communications Subcommittee.
HEARING – May 23 on Reorganization  Plan No. 2.
TESTIMONY – Landis and Minow testified for the plan.
FCC Commissioner Frederick W. Ford, who preceded Minow as the agency's chairman, opposed the plan “because
it threatens to impair the status of the agency as an independent body of seven co-equal members; because it is
unlikely to achieve its objective of ‘more economical and expeditious administration’, and because it attempts in the
name of reorganization  to alter radically the procedural rights of litigants before the Commission, an undertaking
far more appropriate for legislative consideration by the Congress than for Executive action.”
The Committee took no further action on the FCC plan.
FCC Reorganization  Bill
S 2034 cleared the way for faster action by the FCC on major issues by allowing the Commission to delegate minor
functions to employees, but it did not provide the authority requested by the Administration in the Reorganization
 Plan for the chairman to make specific work assignments to board employees and commissioners. The measure
also expedited action by putting oral argument on exceptions to agency decisions on a discretionary instead of
required basis, and by giving the Commission authority to either accept or deny appeals for over-all review without
giving a reason.
The bill had the support of the National Assn. of Broadcasters, which had strongly opposed the plan.
PROVISIONS – As enacted, S 2034 amended the Communications Act  of 1934 as follows:
Authorized the Commission, by a vote of a majority then holding
office, to delegate to a panel of commissioners, an employee board
or an individual employee functions with respect to hearing,
determining, ordering, certifying and reporting.
Provided that delegation of review functions in adjudicatory cases
could be made only to an employee board of three or more
employees; that such employees be qualified by training,
experience and competence and perform no duties inconsistent
with these functions; that they be in a grade classification
commensurate with their job, be assigned in rotation so far as
practicable and not be responsible to supervision by any employee
engaged in investigative or prosecuting duties for any agency.
7/2/09 11:56 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 15http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1373425&type=hitlist&num=1
198-151 roll-call vote Aug.3. (See p.
542)
Conference report (H Rept 996)
agreed to by voice votes of House and
Senate Aug. 22.
PL 87-192 – Signed into law Aug. 31.
Specified that the Commission must pass on every application for
overall review of an employee board's review of a hearing
examiner's decision.
Authorized the Commission to deny, without specifying any reason,
a review of exceptions filed to an initial decision of a delegatee.
Made discretionary the right of a delegatee to grant oral argument
when requested on any exception to a hearing examiner's findings.
Provided that the delegatee passing on any exception in an
adjudicatory case should not be the same one which made the decision to which the exception was taken.
Provided that, in adjudicatory cases, no person who participated in preparation of a case should make any added
presentation to any FCC personnel connected with hearing or reviewing the case unless upon notice to all parties to
participate.
In addition, S 2034 repealed that section of the Communications Act  which established a review staff for the
agency.
House
COMMITTEE – Interstate and Foreign Commerce, Regulatory Agencies Sbucommittee.
HEARINGS – June 13-14 on Rep. Harris' bill (HR 7333) to amend the Communications Act  to provide for 
reorganization  of the FCC.
TESTIMONY – June 13 – FCC Chairman Newton N. Minow said the Commission “wholeheartedly” supported the
objectives of HR 7333, but voiced what he called “consensus” views of the Commissioners in disagreeing with
several specific provisions. He said “our main disagreement” was with the bill's provision for discretionary review of
an examiner's initial decision, upon the vote of a majority of the Commissioners holding office, minus one. Minow
said “a party should have a right to obtain some administrative review” and the Commission did not think mandatory
review would “result in clogging the Commission's processes” if the Commission was given “full discretion with
respect to delegations and oral argument.”
HR 7333 provided for transfer of assignment functions, excluding assignment of Commissioners, from the
Commission to the Chairman, and Minow said, “we do not believe any revision of existing law is needed in this
provision, but think it can be more wisely accomplished by agency, rather than statutory action.”
James M. Landis, President Kennedy's special adviser on regulatory agencies, also supported HR 7333.
June 14 – Robert M. Booth Jr., president of the Federal Communications Bar Assn., supported the objectives of HR
7333, but recommended that the right of oral argument be retained, instead of becoming discretionary as provided in
the bill.
Bill Reported
ACTION – The Committee July 17 reported a clean bill (HR 7856 – H Rept 723).
The report said HR 7856 was designed to allow the FCC to make more effective use of its time and personnel. It
said HR 7856 permitted the FCC board to delegate certain “routine” functions and cases to individual commissioners
or employees. The report said the delegation of functions would “not be done by the Commission in cases of
general communications importance or cases involving new or novel legal issues or policy questions.”
As reported, major provisions of HR 7856:
Authorized commissioners or hearing examiners to hear adjudication cases (existing law restricted the authorization
to the Commission board).
Authorized the Commission board to delegate to a panel of commissioners, an employee board or an individual
employee the function of reviewing exceptions filed to an initial decision of a delegatee.
Eliminated a current requirement giving the right to oral argument when requested on any exception and made the
right discretionary with the Commission.
Permitted the Commission to deny, without specifying any reason, a review of exceptions filed to an initial decision
of a delegatee, thus making the initial decision final.
Permitted the Commission to limit the right to file applications for review of delegatee decisions to proceedings
involving issues of general communications importance.
Provided that the Commission could rescind any previous rule it had adopted for delegation of functions within the
agency by a vote of a majority of the Commission members holding office.
SENATE BILL – In the interim between House Committee action and floor action, the Senate considered and July
7/2/09 11:56 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 15http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1373425&type=hitlist&num=1
SENATE BILL – In the interim between House Committee action and floor action, the Senate considered and July
27 passed a bill (S 2034) which was similar to HR 7856 in most respects. (See Senate action below.)
Floor Action
The House Aug. 3 passed HR 7856 by a 198-151 roll-call vote (D 165-38; R 33-113). Then, the House substituted
the language of HR 7856 for that of the Senate-passed S 2034, passed the Senate bill, as amended, by voice vote
and sent it to conference. (For voting, see chart p. 542)
As passed by the House, S 2034 provided most of the reforms sought by the President in his FCC 
Reorganization  Plan, but the bill eliminated provisions in the plan which would have given the FCC chairman the
power to make specific work assignments to employees and Commissioners. The House bill permitted the FCC to
adopt, amend, or rescind any rule or order for delegation of functions by a vote of a majority of the Commissioners
holding office (constitutional majority). The Senate-passed version had required only a vote of a majority of those
participating. The House bill also permitted the FCC to limit the right to file applications for review of delegated
adjudicative decisions to proceedings involving issues of general communications importance. The Senate did not
grant the FCC this authority. (FCC adjudication cases include the granting, renewing, denying, suspending,
amending, revoking and transferring of licenses.)
Amendments Accepted
Aug. 3 – Oren Harris (D Ark.) – Require that at least three employees serve on any board exercising delegated
review authority in adjudication cases, that they be qualified by training and experience to review cases and perform
no other duties. Voice vote.
J. Arthur Younger (R Calif.) – Specify that the Commissioners must act  upon all applications for review of an
employee board's review of a hearing examiner's decision. Voice.
DEBATE – Aug. 3 – Harris – “This is a bill that is badly needed.” Only Congress can give the regulatory agencies
“the tools to carry out the duties assigned to them… If we permit delays, heavy expenses, red tape and other
defects to continue in the FCC, we will be held answerable to the American people for such an intolerable
condition.”
William L. Springer (R Ill.) – The bill “is in the public interest” for its provides three things the FCC needed: flexibility,
faster procedures for reaching decisions, and greater efficiency in utilizing its personnel.
Walter Rogers (D Texas) – The bill will give the Executive Branch what it “has been after since the regulatory
commissions were first set up”: authority over them by vesting adjudicative powers “in civil service employees.” This
is an issue Congressmen will face “on the political platform” and in their Districts.
Younger – The current requirement that the FCC hear oral argument on every appeal “has gummed up” the
Commission's work on matters of “no importance to the general public.”
Senate
COMMITTEE – Commerce.
ACTION – July 19 reported, with amendments, a bill (S 2034 – S Rept 576) amending the Communications Act
of 1934 to provide for reorganization  of the FCC. The bill was similar to HR 7856 in all but two respects –
regarding the Commission's voting on delegation of functions, and the limitations on the right to seek review. (See
House floor action above)
The report included a July 17 letter from FCC Chairman Minow to Sen. John O. Pastore (D R.I.), sponsor of S 2034,
in which Minow said he believed the provision in HR 7856 for action only by a constitutional majority was “much too
restrictive,” and he did not think elimination of this requirement would “in any way lead to abuses.” Minow said he
“wholeheartedly” supported the bill.
The report said the Committee believed S 2034 would “bring about much needed administrative improvements within
the Commission and will also speed up its adjudicatory proceedings while providing the necessary safeguards to
assure due process.” The report said S 2034 was the result of a “cooperative effort” by the FCC Commissioners.
Floor Action
The Senate July 27 passed S 2034, withminor amendments, by voice vote.
Amendments Accepted
July 27 – John O. Pastore (D R.I.) – Require, when the Commission has delegated its review powers, that the
reviewing officer have equal or higher rank than the person who made the original decision. Voice vote.
Everett McKinley Dirksen (R Ill.) – Require the Board, when delegating authority to hear an appeal against a denial of
review, to delegate it to persons other than those who reached the original decision. Voice.
Dirksen – Prohibit ex parte contacts between litigants and their representatives and FCC personnel connected with
hearing or reviewing their cases at all stages in the proceedings. Voice.
7/2/09 11:56 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 9 of 15http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1373425&type=hitlist&num=1
DEBATE – July 27 – Pastore – The changes S 2034 makes in the Communications Act  “should enable the
Commission to devote more of its time to major matters of policy and planning and to the more significant cases –
primarily those involving issues of general communications importance.”
Conference
REPORT – House-Senate conferees, in their Aug. 18 report (H Rept 996), agreed to eliminate a House-passed
provision authorizing the Commission to limit applications for review by the full Commission in adjudicatory cases to
proceedings involving issues of general communications importance. The report said conferees agreed objection
always could be raised that an issue was of “general communications importance,” and that time consumed in
considering this issue might offset any other time saved by the provision. Conferees agreed to a substitute modifying
House-Senate provisions relating to employee boards performing review functions. It provided that such employees
should “perform no duties inconsistent with such review functions,” should be in a grade classification
commensurate with their duties, and should be assigned to cases in rotation so far as practicable. The original
Senate provision placed no limit on other duties of these employees, while the House had stipulated they have no
other duties. The report said the FCC had submitted as examples of added duties not inconsistent with review
functions such work as drafting or analyzing legislation, studying agency procedures for improvements, assignment
to the Administrative Conference of the United States and aid to commissioners in drafting of opinions. Conferees
retained in the bill a Senate proviso, not in the House measure, that the board delegated to pass on exceptions to a
decision should not be the same one which made the decision, and said this was more a difference of language
than substance.
ACTION – The House and Senate Aug. 22 approved the conference report by voice vote.
FCC Chairman Minow Aug. 22 said S 2034 made all the changes he considered necessary in existing law.
Civil Aeronautics Board
President Kennedy's Reorganization  Plan No. 3, for the Civil Aeronautics Board, was approved by Congress
and went into effect July 3. Approval of the plan, which was similar to those for the SEC and FCC, came when the
House June 20 and the Senate June 29 rejected disapproving resolutions. The plan had the support both of the
CAB and the Air Transport Assn., chief spokesman for the industry.
The plan, submitted to Congress May 3, empowered the Board to delegate decision-making on quasi-judicial and
rule-making actions to a panel of Board members, hearing examiners, individual employees or employee boards,
and empowered the chairman to assign the delegated functions. It authorized discretionary review by the Board of
decisions reached at lower levels, and to insure bipartisan action, it provided that mandatory review of any lower
level action could be voted by a majority of the Board less one member.
House
COMMITTEE – Government Operations, Executive and Legislative Reorganization  Subcommittee.
HEARING – May 18 on Reorganization  Plan No. 3 and two disapproving resolutions (H Res 287, 304).
TESTIMONY – CAB Chairman Alan S. Boyd said his agency would expect to delegate only minor matters until it
gained more experience in acting under the new plan. He said there was need for more flexible agency operation to
keep up with the growing air industry.
ACTION – The Committee June 12 reported un favorably H Res 304 (H Rept 510), in effect approving the plan.
The report said the agency must be given authority to streamline its operations. Reps. Hoffman (R Mich.), Meader
(R Mich.) and Anderson (R Ill.) dissented.
Floor Action
The House June 20 in effect approved the CAB Reorganization  Plan when it rejected H Res 304 by a 178-213
roll-call vote. Only one Republican – Walter Norblad (Ore.) – voted for the plan. (For voting, see chart p. 530)
During debate, Republicans criticized Democrats for having voted against the FCC plan but supporting “basically the
same kind of” plan for the other agencies. They said all the plans would give the Administration “unbridled powers.”
Democrats said there were “other basic features” of the FCC plan which made it objectionable, but that the CAB
plan provided adequate safeguards to Congress' authority over the agencies. They said the FCC plan would have
amended a basic law that made review by the full Commission mandatory, but that there were no statutory review
requirements for the CAB.
DEBATE – June 20 – John B. Anderson (R Ill.) – Although CAB Chairman Alan S. Boyd had testified he did not
know yet “what the impact and import of this plan is,” nevertheless Congressmen were “expected to go along and
vote on something on which we are not fully informed.”
Oren Harris (D Ark.) – Boyd assured the Government Operations Committee the Board “has no ambitious plans to
jump into this reorganization  without adequate consideration of the consequences.”
7/2/09 11:56 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 10 of 15http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1373425&type=hitlist&num=1
H.R. Gross (R Iowa) – He had “heard of payola and heard of back-scratching” and he was “sure a lot of the latter
has been involved here.”
Senate
COMMITTEE – Government Operations. HEARINGS – June 6-7 on Plan No. 3 and a disapproving resolution (S
Res 143).
TESTIMONY – CAB Chairman Boyd said all CAB members favored the plan. James M. Landis, special assistant to
the President, endorsed the plan, while Sen. Francis Case (R S.D.) opposed it.
ACTION – The Committee June 28 favorably reported S Res 143 (S Rept 477) by a 5-4 vote, thus disapproving the
plan. The report said there was a question as to whether giving the agency chairman authority to assign personnel
for various functions, including hearings, orders and reports, did not “vest undue power and authority” in the
chairman. The report also questioned whether the provision for discretionary review did not deprive a litigant of a
“substantive right.”
Voting for the resolution and therefore against the plan were Committee Chairman John L. McClellan (D Ark.) and
Sens. Sam J. Ervin Jr. (D N.C.), Karl E. Mundt (R S.D.), Carl T. Curtis (R Neb.) and Jacob K. Javits (R N.Y.). Voting
against the resolution and therefore in favor of the plan were Sens. Henry M. Jackson (D Wash.) Hubert H. Humphrey
(D Minn.), Ernest Gruening (D Alaska) and Edmund S. Muskie (D Maine).
Floor Action
The Senate June 29 in effect approved Reorganization  Plan No. 3 for the CAB when it rejected S Res 143 by
a 33-38 roll-call vote. Republicans voted unanimously against the plan. (For voting, see chart p. 586)
During debate, opponents reiterated their earlier arguments against all of the plans – too much delegation of
authority to subordinate employees and a lessening of Congressional authority. Supporters of the CAB plan pointed
out that both the CAB and the Air Transport Assn. favored it.
DEBATE – June 29 – Karl E. Mundt (R S.D.) – There should be “grave country-wide concern regarding the attempts
to cut down Congress to the importance of a ceremonial group, and to build up the Executive until it would virtually
run the entire country and its people.”
Edmund S. Muskie (D Maine) – Although the Reorganization  Plans for the SEC, FCC, CAB and FTC “seem very
much alike.…they have different impacts on each of the regulatory agencies involved” because “the functions of the
agencies are different.”
A.S. Mike Monroney (D Okla.), chairman of the Aviation Subcommittee of the Commerce Committee – At hearings of
his Subcommittee there was no opposition to the CAB plan from the aviation industry or from Board members.
Unless the Board is relieved “of the small, insignificant regulatory detail” that it is currently required to rule on, “there
will continue to be five years of delay” in acting on important cases.
Federal Trade Commission
Reorganization  Plan No.4 for the Federal Trade Commission, similar to the SEC, FCC and CAB plans, was
approved by Congress when disapproving resolutions were rejected by the House June 20 and the Senate June 29.
The plan went into effect July 9. Like the others, it was designed to streamline procedures by allowing more
delegation of functions by the commissioners, assignment of delegated functions by the chairman, and discretionary
review of certain lower-level decisions.
The plan was submitted to Congress by the President May 9.
House
COMMITTEE – Government Operations, Executive and Legislative Reorganization  Subcommittee.
HEARING – May 18 on Reorganization  Plan No. 4 and a disapproving resolution (H Res 305).
TESTIMONY – FTC Chairman Paul Rand Dixon said reorganization  would reduce delays in handling an ever-
increasing workload in his agency, that the FTC as of April 30 had 522 cases pending, and the authority of Plan No.
4 was needed to remove any doubt as to what delegations the Commission could make. He said Commissioners
Robert T. Secrest and William C. Kern had voiced limited objections to the plan while Commissioner Sigurd
Anderson opposed the plan generally.
ACTION – The Committee June 12 reported unfavorably H Res 305 (H Rept 511), in effect approving the plan. The
report emphasized that the plan did not alter requirements of a 1950 Reorganization  Plan that the appointment
by the agency chairman of the heads of major administrative units would be subject to approval of the commission
or board. GOP Reps. Hoffman, Meader and Anderson dissented.
Floor Action
7/2/09 11:56 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 11 of 15http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1373425&type=hitlist&num=1
The House June 20 in effect approved Plan No. 4 for the FTC when it rejected H Res 305 by a 178-221 roll-call
vote. Only two Republicans voted in favor of the plan – Reps. Walter Norblad (Ore.) and Laurence Curtis (Mass.). (For
voting, see chart p. 530)
DEBATE – June 20 – George Meader (R Mich.) – Under the FTC plan the two Republican Commissioners “can be
circumvented, rendered impotent and be kept in the dark concerning the operations of the Commission.”
Senate
COMMITTEE – Government Operations.
HEARINGS – June 6-7 on Reorganization  Plan No. 4, and a disapproving resolution (S Res 147). Testifying in
support of the plan were FTC Chairman Paul Rand Dixon and James M. Landis; against it, Sen. Roman L. Hruska (R
Neb.). Statements opposing the plan were submitted by three of the FTC's five commissioners and by the National
Assn. of Manufacturers.
Sen. Warren G. Magnuson (D Wash.), chairman of the Commerce Committee, notified the Government Operations
Committee that a special subcommittee held a June 7 hearing on the FTC plan, and that the full Committee
subsequently recommended approval of the plan.
ACTION – The Committee June 28 reported S Res 147 favorably (S Rept 478) by a 5-4 vote which was identical to
the vote on the CAB plan (above). The report also was similar to the one for the CAB plan. It noted that the FTC
was “charged by law with the exercise of important powers over American business and industry,” and if
“streamlining” was necessary, “this should be done selectively by amending the organic statute of the Commission.”
Floor Action
The Senate June 29 in effect approved the FTC Reorganization  Plan when it rejected S Res 147 by a 31-47
roll-call vote. Republicans voted unanimously against the plan. (For voting, see chart p. 586)
During debate, supporters of the plan said concern over giving the agency too much authority was unwarranted
because the FTC was a law enforcement agency, not a regulatory body. Opponents held to their charge against all
the plans of too much delegation of authority and a lessening of Congressional authority.
DEBATE – June 29 – Jacob K. Javits (R N.Y.) – “The fatal defect in all these plans is the extent to which the
commissions request more authority than they actually need, in order to give themselves what is called.…
‘flexibility’.”
John L. McClellan (D Ark.) – He had conferred with FTC Chairman Dixon and believed the powers proposed to be
conferred “can be granted safely,” so he would support the plan.
National Labor Relations Bd
Reorganization  Plan No. 5, for the National Labor Relations Board, was killed July 20 by the House. There was
no Senate floor action on the plan.
President Kennedy submitted the NLRB plan to Congress May 24. It authorized the Board to delegate any of its
functions to a panel of Board members, an individual member or other employee, except in adjudication or rule-
making proceedings. However, unlike the first four plans, it did not give the chairman any new authority to assign the
delegated functions. Like plans 1-4, it granted the Board discretionary review of all delegated actions with
mandatory review required on a vote of one less than the Board majority.
Debate centered on the provisions for discretionary review and on delegation of Board powers.
House
COMMITTEE – Government Operations.
HEARINGS – June 12 and 19 on Reorganization  Plan No. 5 and a disapproving resolution (H Res 328). NLRB
Chairman Frank W. McCulloch said the Board unanimously recommended approval of the plan, and Rep. Roman C.
Pucinski (D Ill.) said the House Education and Labor Committee supported the plan.
ACTION – The Committee June 26 reported unfavorably H Res 328 (H Rept 576). The report said the NLRB “has
become a prime example of an agency which has been literally overcome by a flood of work,” that a current study
showed the median time from filing of an unfair labor practice charge to a Board decision was 402 days, and “it is
obvious the NLRB must be given authority to streamline its operations if the Labor Management Relations Act
is to be effectively administered.”
Minority views were presented by GOP Committee members Hoffman (Mich.), Riehlman (N.Y.), Meader (Mich.),
Brown (Ohio), Dwyer (N.J.), Griffin (Mich.), Langen (Minn.), Anderson (Ill.), and Morse (Mass.). They said the plan
would amend fundamental law, deprive litigants of their rights and remove Congressional curbs on arbitrary action.
7/2/09 11:56 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 12 of 15http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1373425&type=hitlist&num=1
Floor Action
The House July 20 rejected Reorganization  Plan No. 5 for the NLRB when it adopted H Res 328 by a 231-179
roll-call vote (D 78-167; R 153-12). The 12 GOP votes for the plan were more than any previous 1961 plan
received.
Republicans who voted for the plan were: William G. Bray (Ind.), William T. Cahill (N. J.), Robert J. Corbett (Pa.), Paul
A. Fino (N.Y.), James G. Fulton (Pa.), Seymour Halpern (N.Y.), Chester E. Merrow (N.H.), Frank C. Osmers Jr. (N.J.),
Fred Schwengel (Iowa), Horace Seely-Brown Jr. (Conn.), Eugene Siler (Ky.), and James E. Van Zandt (Pa.). (For
voting, see chart p. 536)
Opponents said the NLRB plan denied a litigant the right to a review of the facts of his case by eliminating the right
to mandatory Board review. Supporters said the right to court review was adequate protection of the litigant's rights
and the discretionary review was necessary to enable the Board to expedite its caseload.
Senate
COMMITTEE – Government Operations.
HEARINGS – June 6 and July 12 -14 on Reorganization  Plan No. 5 and a disapproving resolution (S Res
158).
TESTIMONY – Highlights of testimony on the plan:
July 12 – Thomas E. Harris of the AFL-CIO favored approval of the NLRB plan. He said the delays which the plan
would remedy “work against the unions.”
Eugene A. Keeney of the Chamber of Commerce of the U.S. supported the disapproving resolution. He said the
proposed reorganization  would not solve delays in NLRB actions and that delegation of Board authority to
subordinate employees should not be permitted.
Harvey M. Crow of the National Assn. of Manufacturers said the NLRB should be reorganized, but Congress, not
the President, should do it.
July 14 – NLRB Chairman Frank W. McCulloch supported the plan. He said it would result in a reduction of the
median time required to dispose of unfair labor practice cases from 402 to 263 days.
ACTION – The Committee July 18 reported unfavorably S Res 158 (S Rept 571), by a 6-3 vote. The report said
that though the plan was not a “model of clarity” it would enable the Board to carry out its responsibilities more
effectively without denying the rights of litigants. A minority report submitted by Sens. Carl T. Curtis (R Neb.), Karl E.
Mundt (R S.D.) and Sam J. Ervin Jr. (D N.C.) said the NLRB should be reorganized through legislation or at least
through a clearer, more definite reorganization  plan.
In view of House action July 20, the Senate took no action on S Res 158.
Home Loan Bank Board
Reorganization  Plan No. 6, for the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, was upheld by Congress and went into
effect Aug. 12. The plan was in effect approved when the House Aug. 3 rejected a motion to discharge a
disapproving resolution that had been tabled in committee. There was no Senate action on the plan, which had the
support of member banks.
President Kennedy June 12 submitted to Congress his plan No. 6 for the Federal Home Loan Bank Board. The plan
restored to the chairman of the three-man Board administrative authority to hire and dismiss employees, subject to
the Board's general policies, granted in 1947 through a Reorganization  Plan, but rescinded in the Housing
Amendments of 1955. The President said action was needed to strengthen the Board's management and to relieve
it of day-to-day operating responsibility because of the “phenomenal growth” of its activities.
House
COMMITTEE – Government Operations.
ACTION – July 14 tabled a resolution (H Res 335) disapproving Plan No. 6.
Floor Action
The House Aug. 3 in effect accepted Reorganization  Plan No. 6 when it rejected by voice vote a motion by
Rep. H.R. Gross (R Iowa) to discharge H Res 335, a disapproving resolution, from the Government Operations
Committee.
Gross said he opposed the plan because he opposed all the plans on principle. Rep. William B. Widnall (R N.J.) said
the plan would not create a “domineering bureaucracy” but would permit the Board to regulate savings and loan
7/2/09 11:56 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 13 of 15http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1373425&type=hitlist&num=1
the plan would not create a “domineering bureaucracy” but would permit the Board to regulate savings and loan
institutions with greater efficiency, and had the support of those institutions. He and other Congressmen praised the
Board's chairman, Joseph P. McMurray.
Federal Maritime Board
Reorganization  Plan No. 7, for the Federal Maritime Board, was upheld by Congress and went into effect Aug.
12. The plan abolished the three-member Board and transferred its regulatory functions to a five-member Federal
Maritime Commission and its promotional and subsidy responsibilities to the Secretary of Commerce and the
Commerce Department's Maritime Administration. The plan was upheld, in effect, when the House July 20 and the
Senate Aug. 10 rejected disapproving resolutions.
President Kennedy sent Plan No. 7 to Congress June 12 and said maritime reorganization  was needed to
“strengthen and revitalize” administration of Government programs. He said recent Congressional investigations had
disclosed “serious inadequacies, particularly in the administration of regulatory functions,” and that “the development
and maintenance of a sound maritime industry require that the Federal Government carry out its dual responsibilities
for regulation and promotion with equal vigor and effectiveness.”
House
COMMITTEE – Government Operations.
HEARING – June 27 on Reorganization  Plan No. 7 and a disapproving resolution (H Res 336).
Highlights of the testimony:
Commerce Secretary Luther H. Hodges said the Federal Maritime Board should be reorganized because it could not
effectively and efficiently regulate shipping and also administer subsidies and carry on promotional activities.
Vice Admiral Ralph E. Wilson (ret.), the then-chairman of the Maritime Board and also head of the Maritime
Administration, said the plan involved “more disadvantages than advantages to the public interest.”
John M. Will of the American Export Lines testified in behalf of the Committee of American Steamship Lines, The
American Merchant Marine Institute and the Pacific American Steamship Assn. He opposed the reorganization
plan but said there should be an independent agency, charged with the promotion of the merchant marine and
making of subsidy awards, and also an independent regulatory commission.
ACTION – The Committee July 14tabledHRes 336. (The House Merchant Marine and Fisheries Committee also held
hearings on Plan No. 7 July 11, 12 and 13 and voted 14-11 to approve it.)
Floor Action
The House July 20 in effect accepted Plan No. 7 when it rejected, by a 184-218 roll-call vote, a motion to discharge
H Res 336 from the Committee. The motion was offered by Rep. H.R. Gross (R Iowa). Only three Republicans voted
in favor of the reorganization  plan – Chester E. Merrow (N.H.), John P. Saylor (Pa.) and Fred Schwengel (Iowa).
(For voting, see chart p. 536)
Opponents of the Federal Maritime Board reorganization  plan supported separation of the Board's regulatory
functions from its subsidy-award and promotional functions but opposed granting subsidy powers to the Commerce
Secretary. They said the plan in effect gave the Secretary quasi-judicial functions which should be carried out by an
independent agency, not an Executive Department. They also said the Board should be reorganized by Congress,
not the President. Supporters said the plan would promote efficiency and better supervision of subsidy awards.
Senate
COMMITTEE – Government Operations.
ACTION – The Committee took no action on a disapproving resolution (S Res 186) which was introduced July 28.
The Commerce Committee's Merchant Marine and Fisheries Subcommittee held hearings on the plan July 19, but
the full Committee did not recommend either approval or disapproval of the plan. Instead, it authorized its members
to submit their views individually to the Government Operations Committee. Eight of the 17 members of the
Commerce Committee, in a letter to the Government Operations Committee, recommended disapproval of the plan.
Floor Action
The Senate Aug. 10 upheld, in effect, the Reorganization  Plan for the Federal Maritime Board. The Senate first
agreed by voice vote to a motion by Andrew F. Schoeppel (R Kan.) to discharge S Res 186 from the Government
Operations Committee, and then rejected the disapproving resolution by a 35-60 roll-call vote (D 4-57; R 31-3).
(For voting, see chart p. 595)
Supporters of Plan No. 7 said it would provide better regulation of shipping and greater efficiency and improved
supervision of subsidy awards. Opponents of the plan supported the separation of regulatory and subsidy-awarding
functions, but opposed transfer of subsidy supervision to the Secretary of Commerce. Sen. Thruston B. Morton (R
7/2/09 11:56 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 14 of 15http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1373425&type=hitlist&num=1
HR 8033 – Reported by House Interstate
and Foreign Commerce Committee (H
Rept 750) July 20, 1961.
Passed by the House by a 212-174
roll-call vote Aug. 8. (See p. 544)
Reported “by Senate Commerce
Committee (S Rept 839) Aug. 30.
Passed by the Senate by voice vote
Sept. 1.
PL 87-247 – Signed into law Sept. 14.
Ky.) said one man should not be authorized to administer the multi-million dollar subsidy program. Minority Leader
Everett McKinley Dirksen (R Ill.) opposed the plan also because it permitted delegation of powers to subordinate
employees in vital shipping matters such as rate control, shipping practices and agreements, and it limited the right
of appeal.
ICC Reorganization
HR 8033 permitted the Interstate Commerce Commission to
delegate to employee boards power to review cases. The legislation
was requested by the ICC. The President did not submit a 
Reorganization  Plan for the ICC.
Prior to enactment of HR 8033, the Interstate Commerce Act
authorized only the ICC or one of its working divisions (composed
of three Commissioners) to review contested recommendations
made by hearing officers. The Act  permitted the ICC to
delegate authority to employee boards to handle contested cases.
Under HR 8033, the ICC was permitted to establish one or more
three-man employee boards for each of its three categories of
cases: operating rights; rates and practices; finance, safety and
service. The boards, staffed by attorneys, were authorized to make
decisions in cases in which a hearing had been held either by a
hearing examiner or a joint board. Under HR 8033, litigants
retained the right to appeal to the ICC or its working divisions the
decisions of the employee boards in contested cases.
First steps to expedite ICC procedures were taken by the agency itself Jan. 9 when it announced that, effective
Feb. 1, in order to speed final disposition of cases, decisions by its four working divisions would be final with these
exceptions: when the full Commission specifically designated a case for hearing before it; when a working division
modified a previous ruling by an ICC hearing officer; or when a case originated with a working division rather than
with a hearing officer. The ICC also announced plans to set up three boards of staff employees to handle
uncontested cases.
House
COMMITTEE – Interstate and Foreign Commerce, Regulatory Agencies Subcommittee.
HEARING – June 12 on HR 6716, a bill introduced at the request of the ICC to permit greater efficiency in its
procedures.
TESTIMONY – The proposed legislation was supported by spokesmen for the ICC, the Assn. of Interstate
Commerce Commission Practitioners, the Assn. of American Railroads and the Budget Bureau. It was opposed by
the American Trucking Assns. and the Federal Trial Examiners Conference.
ACTION – The full Committee July 20 reported a clean bill (HR 8033 – H Rept 750) by a 13-11 vote. The report
said HR 8033 would “materially assist” the ICC in easing its workload. The report included a letter from the Budget
Bureau which said the bill met President Kennedy's proposal in his April 13 message to Congress on regulatory
agencies that agency chairmen be given greater authority to delegate work.
Floor Action
The House Aug. 8 passed HR 8033 by a 212-174 roll-call vote (D 182-45; R 30-129). (For voting, see chart p. 544)
Floor manager Oren Harris (D Ark.) said the bill included power to delegate ICC review authority only in adjudicative
cases because the delegation of other Commission authority to employee boards already was part of the Interstate
Commerce Act .
Opponents of HR 8033 said ICC review functions in adjudicative matters should not be delegated to civil servants.
Supporters said the rights of litigants were protected because they could appeal board decisions and also because
they retained the right to judicial review after exhausting administrative review.
Senate
COMMITTEE – Commerce.
HEARING – Aug. 23 on HR 8033.
TESTIMONY – ICC Chairman Everett Hutchinson, the only witness, said he wanted to emphasize that although
actions of employee boards would not be administratively final, their establishment would improve and speed the
decision-making process.
7/2/09 11:56 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 15 of 15http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1373425&type=hitlist&num=1
ACTION – The Committee Aug. 30 reported HR 8033 (S Rept 839) without amendment. The report said the 
reorganization program begun by the ICC in February had expedited handling of the agency's growing workload and
given the Commissioners more time for “personal consideration of the broad policy problems in transportation.”
Despite this improvement, the report said, HR 8033 was necessary because it “allows improvement in an area
which cannot be accomplished without legislation.”
Floor Action
The Senate Sept. 1 passed HR 8033 by voice vote and without debate, sending it to the President.
Document Citation
"Reorganization Act." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal61-1373425. Originally published in CQ
Almanac 1961 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1961). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal61-1373425 (accessed
July 2, 2009).
Document ID: cqal61-1373425
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal61-1373425
© 1961, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
