7/2/09 12:05 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1372857&type=hitlist&num=0
Urban Development
1992 Urban Aid Measures Fail Despite
Riots'  Impetus
1992 Cities Seek Help From Congress
1978 Presidential Statement: Carter
Proposal for Urban Policy
1978 Countercyclical Aid Dies; Key
Urban Program
1977 $12.5-Billion Urban Aid
Authorization Voted
1976 Aid to New York
1975 Congress Approves Loans for New
York City
1972 Rules Committee Kills Housing-
Urban Development Act
1971 Urban Development Programs
1971 Community Development:
Senate, House Hold Hearings
1969 Housing, Urban Development
1969 Congress Studies Urban
Proposals, Extends Hud Act
1968 Message to Congress: Johnson on
Cities
1967 Model Cities, Rent Supplement
Funds Cut Deeply
1967 Kennedy (N.Y.) Housing Bills
1967 54 Democratic, 9 GOP Districts
Get Model City Funds
1966 Problems of The Cities
Highlighted
1966 Housing, Demonstration Cities
Bill Enacted
1964 Housing Act Expands Existing
Programs
1961 Administration Wins Victory on
Housing Bill
Bankruptcy
S 1922 – Reported by Senate Banking
and Currency Committee (S Rept 281)
May 19, 1961.
HR 6028 – Reported, amended, by House
Banking and Currency Committee (H Rept
447) June 1.
S 1922 – Passed by the Senate,
amended, by a 64-25 roll-call vote June
12. (See p. 582)
HR 6028 – Passed by the House,
amended, by a 235-178 roll-call vote June
22. (See p. 530)
S 1922 – Conference report (H Rept 602)
agreed to by the Senate, by a 53-38 roll-
call vote, and by the House, by a 229-176
roll-call vote, June 28. (See p. 586, 532)
PL 87-70 – Signed into law June 30.
Administration Wins Victory  on Housing Bill
An article from CQ Almanac 1961
Document Outline
Background
Senate
House
Floor Action
Conference
Features
In response to President Kennedy's requests, Congress in 1961 passed a far-
reaching omnibus housing bill, probably the most comprehensive since 1949.
The measure had three major objectives: to reduce urban blight and
congestion, to improve housing for low and moderate-income families (those
with incomes of $6,000 a year or under), and to stimulate building activity to
counter the 1960-61 business recession. (For spending authorizations, see
box, next page)
While most of the programs
created or continued by the
Housing Act of 1961
contributed toward all three
objectives, the chief devices
to combat urban blight and
congestion were
authorization of $2 billion in
new funds for the urban
renewal program, $55 million
for urban planning, and
special grant and loan funds
for development of mass-
transportation facilities and
“open spaces” in cities.
For improvement of living
standards of low and
moderate-income families,
the Act considerably
expanded community
facilities loans aimed at
financing basic sewage, gas and water service in small
communities, authorized about 100,000 new public housing units,
and boosted funds for construction of farm housing and housing for
the elderly.
It also initiated three new experimental programs providing federal loan insurance against losses on long-term (35-
40 year) commercial loans made for construction and rehabilitation of housing to be priced within the reach of
persons of moderate income. With the loan insurance, the Government hoped to stimulate the flow of private and
bank funds into moderate-income projects. To further insure that funds would flow into mortgages for the new
moderate-income programs (and also to help stimulate homebuilding in general), the Housing Act of 1961
substantially increased funds available to the Federal National Mortgage Assn. (FNMA) for purchasing mortgages
from banks under its special assistance programs. (The bank would make a low or limited-interest loan for the
purpose of financing a moderate-income housing development; FNMA would then buy the mortgage from the bank.
Without the possibility of selling the mortgage to FNMA, banks would be reluctant to tie up funds in some of the low-
interest loans authorized by the bill. Since some of the new insured loans were to be made at below the market rate
of interest, it was virtually certain that the banks would immediately resell these mortgages to FNMA. For this
category of mortgages, the net result of the procedure would be that FNMA was advancing money at low interest
rates for construction of moderate-income housing.)
 
7/2/09 12:05 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1372857&type=hitlist&num=0
Other major provisions of the bill extended the authority of the Federal Housing Administration  (FHA) to
guarantee regular mortgage loans and home-improvement loans against defaults, eased terms for regular mortgage
loans insurable by the FHA, expanded the college housing loan program and extended the military housing
program.
The 1960-61 recession was a major factor in enactment of the bill, giving impetus to Administration  requests for
generous authorizations and expanded programs. Some opponents said sponsors were using the recession as an
excuse to force through massive long-range programs whose full effects would not be felt for 20 or more years.
Opposition to Administration  requests came from Republicans and conservative Democrats who objected in
general to the high costs of the programs authorized, and in particular to the public housing, moderate-income
housing, mass transportation and open-space authorizations, and succeeded in getting many provisions modified.
The final version of the bill, nevertheless, was substantially what the Administration  had requested. (For
separate action on veterans' housing, see p. 201)
Provisions
As signed by the President, S 1922 (PL 87-70), the Housing Act of 1961, contained the following provisions:
Title I, New Housing Programs. Established five new categories of mortgage loans that could be insured by the
Federal Housing Administration :
1. (a) Limited-interest (5-6 percent) loans for construction of one to four-family sales housing priced within the reach of
moderate-income families. These loans were limited to 35 years' maturity, except for families displaced by Government
action and hardship cases, for whom 40 years was permissible. A 3 percent downpayment was required. Insurance on
loans for one-family houses was widely available under this program, but for two to four-family housing, only to families
displaced by Government action. The maximum mortgage amounts were fixed at $11,000 to $33,000 for one- to four-
family housing in normal cost areas and at $15,000 to $38,000 in high cost areas.
(b) Limited-interest (5-6 percent) loans for construction and rehabilitation of rental housing (five units or over) for
moderate-income families. Ten percent equity (similar to a downpayment) was required to be put up by the builder, and
the maximum term was left to the discretion of the FHA Commissioner, who was expected to limit it administratively to
40 years.
FHA authority to contract for new guarantees under both the limited-interest sales and rental programs would expire
July 1, 1963.
2. 2. Below-the-market rate, 100 percent loans (no equity required from builder) to nonprofit organizations, cooperatives
and public agencies for construction and rehabilitation of five-family (or larger) rental dwellings for moderate-income
families. The maximum term was left to the discretion of the FHA Commissioner, who was expected to limit it
administratively to 40 years. “Be low-the-market rate” was defined as the rate not less than the average being paid by
the U.S. on all its out standing marketable obligations, estimated currently at 3-1/8 to 3 1/2 percent. At his discretion the
FHA Com missioner could also guarantee loans under this section at up to 6 percent.
FHA authority to contract for new guarantees under this program would expire July 1, 1965.
(In Title VI, FNMA was authorized an additional $1.51 billion for its special assistance program. Much of this new
authority was expected to be used to purchase mortgages guaranteed by FHA under the above programs.)
3. Twenty-year, limited-interest (6 percent maximum) loans for improvement of existing dwellings within urban-renewal
areas or one-to-four-family dwellings outside such areas. Loans could be as high as $10,000 per family unit. (This
program supplemented the existing home-improvement program, which was extended in Title VI.)
4. Regular mortgage loans on housing incorporating new and advanced design and techniques.
5. Loans on condominium housing – apartments in a multi-family dwelling that are individually owned and have individual
mortgages.
Title II, Elderly and Public Housing. Expanded to $125 million the 1959 authorization of a $50 million revolving loan
fund to make direct loans to non-profit groups at below the market rate for construction of housing for the elderly.
Expanded eligible groups to include consumer cooperatives and public agencies.
Authorized (in effect) the Public Housing Administration  to contract for construction by local public housing
agencies of an additional 100,000 public housing units. (See explanation in box on funds authorized).
Made Social Security disability pensioners eligible for public housing whenever they became eligible for disability
pensions, instead of requiring them to be at least 50 years old.
Permitted the Federal Government to increase its contribution toward the cost of public housing for the elderly by
$120 a year per family to avoid deficits in low-rent public housing projects and maintain cheap rentals for the
elderly.
Raised the building cost limit per room for public housing for the elderly from $2,500 to $3,000.
7/2/09 12:05 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1372857&type=hitlist&num=0
Authorized $5 million for demonstration programs (by local housing authorities) experimenting with new methods of
providing housing for low-income families.
Title III, Urban Renewal and Planning. Authorized an additional $2 billion in federal capital grants for urban renewal
projects. Of this amount, $25 million was set aside for federal grants to local agencies to cover two-thirds of the cost
of mass-transportation demonstration projects. (See urban planning, this Title, and Title V, below, for additional
mass-transport authority.)
Increased the federal share of urban renewal grants from two-thirds to three-fourths for projects in communities with
a population of 50,000 or less, in economically depressed communities of up to 150,000 which qualify for assistance
under the area redevelopment program, and in any other community as determined by the HHFA Administrator.
Small communities could get the three-quarters grant without having to assume planning, legal and administrative
overhead costs.
Authorized $25 million for 3 1/2 percent disaster loans by the Small Business Administration  to small
businesses forced to vacate by urban-renewal projects or other governmental action, and permitted relocation
payments for moving expenses of over $3,000.
Encouraged development of moderate-income and public housing accommodations in urban-renewal areas, clearing
of blighted areas around colleges and hospitals and rehabilitation by private builders of housing in urban-renewal
areas by technical changes in existing law.
Permitted local urban-renewal agencies to sell land and property – at a lower price than might be obtained from
private commercial builders – to cooperatives, non-profit organizations and public agencies (and also to certain
private builders operating under Title I, above) who intended to build moderate-income rental units on the land.
Raised an existing authorization from $20 million to $75 million for grants to states and localities for planning various
types of urban and small-city rehabilitation projects, and raised the federal share from half to two-thirds of the cost
of each planning project. Made clear that mass-transport studies could be financed by the planning fund. In
addition, gave states blanket authority in advance to conclude interstate compacts to undertake joint planning
projects.
Title IV, College Housing. Raised from $1,675,000,000 to $2,875,000,000 (in four steps by July 1, 1964) the federal
revolving loan fund for low-interest, long-term (up to 50-year) loans to colleges, universities and hospitals for
construction of housing.
Raised the limit on the portion of the fund that could be spent for dining halls, student centers and other non-
housing facilities on college campuses by $120 million, to $295 million, and on hospital housing for nurses and
interns by $120 million, to $220 million (in both cases, in four steps by July 1, 1964).
Title V, Community Facilities. Raised from $150 million to $650 million the community facilities loan fund for local
water, gas and sewage plant improvements.
Earmarked $50 million of the increase for low-interest loans to metropolitan agencies for construction of mass-
transportation systems. Authority to contract under this provision was limited to Dec. 31, 1962.
Made states ineligible for community facilities loans, limiting eligibility to communities of less than 50,000 population
(less than 150,000 if community was located in a depressed area). Preference was to be given to communities of
10,000 or less.
Authorized $10 million for public works planning.
Title VI, National Housing Act Changes. Authorized the Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA) to borrow an
additional $750 million from the Treasury for its special assistance program. An additional $760 million of existing
FNMA funds were transferred to the program.
Permitted FNMA to make short-term (one-year) loans on the security of pledged FHA or VA mortgages, limited to
80 percent of the unpaid balance on the mortgage.
Extended the existing home-improvement loan guarantee program for four years, to Oct. 31, 1965. (Loans under
the program are limited to $3,500 and five years. Title I, above, contained a new 20-year home-improvement loan
program.)
Eased terms for regular FHA home mortgage insurance by raising the maximum mortgage maturity for new homes
from 30 to 35 years (but retained 30-year maturity for resale housing) and by lowering the required downpayment
for one-family dwellings. The new schedule required 3 percent on the first $15,000 valuation of a home, 10 percent
on the next $5,000 and 25 percent on anything over $20,000. (This replaced a schedule of 3 percent on the first
$13,500, 10 percent on the next $4,500 and 30 percent on anything over $18,000.) The maximum mortgage for a
one-family home was increased from $22,500 to $25,000 and for two-family dwellings from $25,000 to $27,500.
Removed the dollar limit on the aggregate of loans that could be insured by the FHA for all general mortgage-
insurance programs.
Made Oct. 1, 1965 the cut-off date on the FHA's authority to insure new loans.
7/2/09 12:05 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1372857&type=hitlist&num=0
Permitted FHA to reduce its premium on any regular mortgage insurance from one-half of 1 percent to one-quarter,
applicable to new and existing mortgages.
Extended for one year, through Oct. 1, 1962, the FHA's authority to insure mortgages on housing for military
personnel and civilian armed-services employees in areas around defense installations (so-called Capehart housing)
and on similar housing around National Aeronautics and Space Administration  and Atomic Energy Commission
installations.
Raised from 25,000 to 28,000 the number of housing units that could be built under the Capehart program after
June 30, 1959.
Permitted the cost of exterior land improvements to be excluded in determining the maximum amount of rental,
cooperative and certain other types of mort gages.
Made cooperatives of five units or more (instead of eight or more) eligible for FHA cooperative insurance.
Permitted the FHA to insure supplementary loans for older cooperatives for the purpose of financing improvements,
repairs and community facilities. The amount of the supplementary loan could not exceed the unpaid mortgage
balance at the time the supplementary loan was made, and was limited to the remaining mortgage term.
Reduced required equity on FHA-insured nursing home mortgages from 25 percent of value to 10 percent.
Title VII, Open Space Land. Authorized $50 million in federal grants to states and localities to pay up to 30 percent
of the cost of acquisition of land in and around urban centers to create “open space” areas for recreational,
conservation, scenic and historic purposes.
Title VIII, Farm Housing. Extended the farm housing program for four years, through June 30, 1965, and increased
an existing $207 million authorization (granted by Congress earlier) by $200 million. (For explanation see box on
funds authorized.)
Made families living in rural areas, even though not engaged in farming, eligible for farm housing loans.
Authorized the Secretary of Agriculture to set up a loan insurance program, similar to FHA loan insurance, to insure
$25 million in commercial loans to farmers (at 4 1/2 percent with an insurance charge of one-half of 1 percent) for
construction of housing facilities for domestic farm laborers.
Authorized $250,000 a year to the Secretary of Agriculture for fiscal 1962-65 for farm housing research.
Title IX, Miscellaneous. Extended the Voluntary Home Mortgage Credit Program for four years, through Oct. 1, 1965.
(The program facilitates the flow of private investment funds for FHA-insured and VA-guaranteed home mortgage
loans into remote areas and small communities and encourages the financing of housing for minority groups.)
Authorized $15 million, to be available until June 30, 1962, for loans and grants to public and non-profit agencies for
hospital construction under the Defense Housing and Community Facilities Act of 1951. Only applications filed
before June 30, 1953 and denied solely because of lack of funds could be serviced with the $15 million.
(In the Supplemental Appropriation bill for fiscal 1962 (HR 9169) Congress withdrew “backdoor spending”
authorizations for three housing programs and instead made direct appropriations of: $42.5 million for mass
transportation; $35 million for open-space land grants; and $2 million for low-rent housing demonstration. See p.
178.)
Background
REFERENCES – Housing (1960 Almanac p. 271; 1959 Almanac p. 245; 1958 Almanac p. 225, 229; 1957 Almanac
p. 594; 1956 Almanac p. 511)
Until recent years, federal housing policy was largely a response to the needs of war and depression. The first
positive federal action came during World War I when the Government helped to provide housing for workers near
industrial plants. After the war, the Government hastily withdrew from the housing field.
Under the impact of the depression, however, housing policy was forged into a major weapon to stabilize and
stimulate the economy. Starting with passage of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act under President Hoover in 1932,
the Federal Government steadily increased its emergency housing activities.
In 1933 the Home Owners' Loan Corp. was organized to curb the rising trend of mortgage foreclosures.
In 1934, the National Housing Act established the Federal Housing Administration  to encourage building and to
increase the supply of mortgage funds by providing banks and other private lending institutions with Government
insurance against loss on long-term, first-mortgage home loans and on home-repair loans.
In 1937 Congress set up a long-range program of public housing for low-income families. Under the program local
housing authorities, assisted by federal loans and annual subsidy payments, constructed and operated public
housing facilities.
7/2/09 12:05 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1372857&type=hitlist&num=0
By 1940 the trend was toward withdrawal from housing. But U.S. entry into World War II required further federal
efforts in building housing for workers and for servicemen returning home.
The Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944 – popularly known as the GI Bill – provided for Veterans 
Administration  insurance of low-interest home financing loans made by private lenders.
The Housing Act of 1949 – a landmark in housing legislation – significantly broadened the federal role in housing by
setting as a goal “a decent home and a suitable living environment for every American family.” Private enterprise
and state and local governments, in partnership with the Federal Government, were to take the lead whenever
possible in meeting this goal. The Act established a $1 billion program of federal urban renewal assistance to
localities in clearing and redeveloping slums. It also revived and broadened the public housing program, authorized
a decennial census of housing and launched a program of economic and technical research in residential
construction and finance. Congress also provided $250 million (increased to $1 billion through 1961) for a rural
housing loan program to assist farmers in rural communities in constructing and repairing homes and essential farm
buildings.
In the years following the 1949 Act, housing legislation was passed to meet new and specific needs. In 1950 the
Veterans Administration  was authorized to make direct home-purchase or repair loans to veterans living in
small communities where private financing was not available. In the same year, a program of federal assistance in
providing college housing was initiated. In 1957 it was broadened to include hospitals.
The Housing Act of 1954 carried urban renewal beyond slum clearance and initiated comprehensive federal-local
cooperation to ensure sound community development. The Housing Amendments of 1955 authorized a program of
federal assistance to state and local governments to help finance construction of specific public works (community
facilities) projects. The housing problems of elderly citizens were recognized in the 1956 law, which made it easier
for a person 60 or over to secure an FHA-insured mortgage on single-family sales housing. The law also facilitated
financing with FHA mortgage insurance of the construction and rehabilitation of rental housing for the aging by
nonprofit organizations. The Housing Act of 1959 authorized direct federal loans to sponsors of nonprofit rental
housing for the elderly.
During the Eisenhower Administrations, there were many conflicts between Democrats, favoring sharply accelerated
federal programs, particularly for low-income groups, and Republicans, favoring less rapid advances or, in many
cases, cutbacks.
Kennedy Goals, Task Force
During the 1960 Presidential campaign, Sen. Kennedy Oct. 10 in Pittsburgh called for an expanded urban renewal
program to help in “conserving and restoring older areas, as well as in clearing and rebuilding areas that are beyond
conserving.” He said that a 50 percent increase in home-building was required and that effective programs for the
elderly and middle-income families were of particular importance. He also called for “unified transportation planning”
as a “condition and a goal of federal assistance.” In Salem, Ore., Sept. 7, he promised to reform the FHA mortgage-
insurance program in order to “stimulate the construction of housing at all income levels.”
In a report issued Jan. 7 a special task force on housing appointed by President-elect Kennedy urged the new 
Administration  to institute a multi-billion dollar federal housing program with particular emphasis on aid for low-
income families.
The task force proposed supplementing the existing public housing program by “an entirely new subsidy program to
provide housing for low-income families.” The program should encourage participation by private enterprise and give
“the widest discretion to local communities in choosing their housing programs…”
An increase in authorizations for the Federal Housing Administration  and liberalization in FHA terms were
recommended, plus a new FHA insurance program for site development. Additional funds also were recommended
for the Federal National Mortgage Assn. to cover both the regular secondary-market program and the special
assistance program.
It also proposed sharply increased funds for the elderly, farm and college housing programs, the community facilities
program and for programs to assist in mass transit development and in “orderly suburban development.”
To stimulate the economy President Kennedy Feb. 1 ordered the FHA to reduce the maximum interest on FHA-
insured loans from 5-3/4 percent to 5 1/2 percent (and on May 26 to 5-1/4 percent); the Community Facilities 
Administration  to reduce interest rates on new loans for construction of public facilities, and the Housing and
Home Finance Agency to hasten approved projects.
Housing Message
President Kennedy March 9 sent to Congress a special 10-point message on housing and community
development.(For text, see p. 882)
The message stressed the need to: help cities fight the “blight and decay” resulting from the movement of middle
and upper-income families to the suburbs; facilitate more orderly suburban expansion; revitalize the home
construction industry; and provide easier housing credit for moderate-income and low-income families.
Following are the President's requests, with details provided by Administration  aides:
7/2/09 12:05 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1372857&type=hitlist&num=0
MODERATE-INCOME FAMILIES – Extension of the Federal Housing Authority's no-downpayment, 40-year mortgage
program, which then was available only to families displaced by Government action, to any family for a temporary,
experimental period of 12-18 months. The FHA would seek several new financing features “to make these mortgages
more attractive to private investors,” the message said.
A new program of long-term, low-interest loans to cooperatives, non-profit associations, limited dividend corporations
and local housing authorities for the construction of low rent and cooperative housing units, with loans to be made by
banks, insured by FHA, and the mortgages then purchased by the special assistance funds of the Federal National
Mortgage Assn., which the President would ask Congress to increase by about $500 million. (He eventually requested
$750 million.)
LOW-INCOME FAMILIES – Construction of 100,000 additional low-rent units with money authorized under the Housing
Act of 1949 but never spent. (See box on funds authorized for explanation). Removal of the unit-volume limitation which
had governed the use of the original authorization so as to permit the construction of the proposed new 100,000 units as
soon as possible. (This would increase public housing units from 597,345 to 697,345.)
HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY – An increase in the direct loan authorization for elderly housing from $50 million to
$100 million. (Of the current authorization of $50 million, only about $20 million has actually been borrowed by church,
fraternal and other non-profit organizations to finance housing units for the aged, but with certain administrative and
technical changes in the elderly housing program, loan applications would be increased, aides said.)
The message said the President had directed HHFA to earmark 50,000 of the 100,000 low-rent public housing units
requested above specifically for elderly persons and families. Because of special facilities in rental housing for the
elderly and because of the smaller number of rooms per unit, the President said he would ask Congress to increase
the cost limitation on housing for the elderly by $500 per room (the current limitation was $2,500 per room) and
authorize an additional subsidy of up to $10 per month for each housing unit.
URBAN AND METROPOLITAN AREAS – New authorizations of $2.5 billion over a four-year period for urban renewal
grants and loans, in addition to the $2 billion authorized for urban renewal projects in the Housing Act of 1949 and
subsequent legislation.
More liberal federal allowances to help small businessmen relocate after being displaced by renewal projects.
New authority for the FHA to insure home improvement loans. To supplement the urban renewal program, the ceiling on
home improvement loans, currently $3,500, would be raised and the loans would be made for longer terms and at lower
interest rates.
Government absorption of a portion of the costs in selling rehabilitated houses in urban renewal areas to moderate-
income families.
An increase in the federal share of metropolitan planning grants from one-half to two-thirds and an increase in the
authorization from $20 million to $100 million.
LAND RESERVES – $100 million in grants to help local authorities acquire and set aside “open space” for parks and
other facilities.
COMMUNITY FACILITIES AND URBAN TRANSPORTATION – An additional $50 million for loans to finance such local
facilities as sewers, water systems and other public works.
RURAL HOUSING – Five-year extension of the farm housing loan program, due to expire June 30. (No new money
would be needed as there was available about $200 million in uncommitted funds.)
VETERANS HOUSING – Extension of the loan guarantee and direct loan programs of the Veterans Administration ,
both due to expire July 25, 1962; an increase in the $150 million direct loan limitation.
DEMONSTRATIONS AND RESEARCH – Special FHA insurance for houses privately built with experimental designs
and materials.
NEW DEPARTMENT – Establishment of a Cabinet-rank Department of Housing and Urban Affairs. (For action on this
request, see story p. 367)
Housing Message Reaction
O. G. Powell, president of the National Assn. of Real Estate Boards, March 11 questioned the President's call for
reviving the Housing Act of 1949 to provide more public housing. On the same day, E. J. Burke Jr., president of the
National Assn. of Home Builders, said he was “disturbed” by proposals to expand public housing, but he supported
a Cabinet-level Department of Housing and Urban Affairs, “provided housing was given priority in such a
department.”
C. Elwood Knapp, president of the U.S. Savings and Loan League, March 12 said a Presidential proposal for special
FHA insurance for testing and developing new housing designs and materials by private industry could result in
7/2/09 12:05 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1372857&type=hitlist&num=0
FHA insurance for testing and developing new housing designs and materials by private industry could result in
lower housing costs. It could be, he said, “the most important and helpful development for American housing and
homebuilding that has come along in many years.” Knapp said the League was opposed to more public housing and
to the proposal for a no-downpayment, 40-year program of moderate-income housing. On a loan of more than 30
years, he said, “depreciation actually will outrun the amount of equity of the homebuyer.”
The National Housing Conference March 13 fully endorsed the Kennedy housing message with, as one of its
resolutions put it, “a sense of exhilaration.”
The conference, with an over-all membership of about 3,000 persons, is composed of individuals, labor unions,
consumer groups, welfare groups and others interested in housing.
The National Assn. of Housing and Redevelopment Officials and the American Institute of Architects March 11
expressed wholehearted approval of the provisions in the housing message dealing with urban and metropolitan
areas.
Sen. Paul H. Douglas (D Ill.) and Rep. Albert Rains (D Ala.), chairman of the Housing Subcommittee of the House
Banking and Currency Committee, said there was mounting opposition to the Administration 's housing program
both in and out of Congress. Both cited the defeat in the 1960 elections of about 20 Democratic Representatives
who had supported public housing and urban renewal legislation in the House that year. Douglas said the Chamber
of Commerce of the U.S., National Assn. of Manufacturers, “big money, big business, big newspaper groups in the
nation” could be counted on to oppose an Administration  housing bill.
Administration -drafted bills to implement President Kennedy's new housing program were introduced in
Congress March 29. In the Senate, the Housing Act of 1961 (S 1478) was sponsored by John J. Sparkman (D Ala.).
The House version (HR 6028) was sponsored by Rains.
The legislation followed closely the lines of the President's special March 9 message on housing and community
development. However, one feature was included that was not discussed in the housing message.
The new item called for a program under which bank loans for home improvement would be insured by the Federal
Housing Authority for a maximum period of 25 years. The loans would be limited to $10,000, and would carry
interest rates not higher than 6 percent. Robert C. Weaver, Housing and Home Finance Administrator, said the
home improvement loan program was designed to get away from “the bulldozer approach to urban renewal.” The
loans would be available for home repairs and additions in any neighborhood, however, and would not be restricted
to renewal areas.
Two features of the President's March 9 housing message were not carried in the Housing Act of 1961. One was
the proposal that would set up a Cabinet-level Department of Urban Affairs. Weaver said this would be submitted to
Congress at a later date. The second item was the proposed program of federal aid to localities for buying land to
be used for park areas or by public agencies. Weaver said a bill (S 858) introduced by Sen. Harrison A. Williams (D
N.J.) Feb. 9 would accomplish this. The “open space” plan was later incorporated in the omnibus housing bill, as
was a $1,350,000,000 request intended to finance the college housing program for the next five years.
Senate
COMMITTEE – Banking and Currency, Housing Subcommittee.
HELD HEARINGS – April 4-7, 10-14, on the Administration 's housing bill (S 1478), sponsored by
Subcommittee Chairman Sparkman.
TESTIMONY – April 4 – Robert C. Weaver, Housing and Home Finance Administrator, said the nation's housing
needs were concentrated mainly among moderate and low-income families. “Recent migrants to cities, elderly
persons and nonwhites make up a large segment of those who lack decent facilities,” he said.
Weaver criticized urban renewal programs in some large cities which replaced slums with luxury apartments. “We
cannot go on indefinitely redeveloping areas with apartments which can be afforded only by families with substantial
means,” he said. Two provisions of the Administration 's housing bill were designed to meet these problems, he
said. The first provided 40-year Government-insured home mortgages for moderate income families; the second
permitted the Federal Housing Administration  to insure low-interest rate loans to churches, unions and nonprofit
groups for the construction of moderate-rent apartments. He said the provision for 100,000 low-rent public housing
units also was necessary to help low-income families.
Referring to what he called the “depressed condition of the homebuilding industry,” Weaver said proposals in the 
Administration  bill would “further help to take up the slack” in home construction. He said, however, that the
industry would have “to face realistically the changes in our housing market – changes reflected in a slow-up in the
effective demand for higher-priced homes.”
Under questioning by Sen. Paul H. Douglas (D Ill.) who asked if houses built for purchase and 40-year mortgages
would last as long as the mortgage payments, Weaver said houses can and do last for 40 years. He stressed that
the program was experimental and would depend on how well construction standards were observed. Weaver said
total interest charges on a $10,000 home paid for over a 40-year period at the current FHA maximum rate of 5 1/2
percent would be about $14,700, bringing the total cost of the home to more than $24,000.
7/2/09 12:05 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1372857&type=hitlist&num=0
Stanley H. Woolner, Community Facilities Administrator, in answer to a question by Sparkman, said the Community
Facilities Administration 's loan fund for the construction of college dormitories was down to about $107 million
and probably would be exhausted by the middle of April, 1961.
April 5 – Richardson Dilworth (D), mayor of Philadelphia and president of the U.S. Conference of Mayors, endorsed
the urban renewal feature of S 1478 providing a $2.5-billion, four-year slum clearance program, but he said he
would prefer a 10-year program. Dilworth also proposed increasing the federal share of urban renewal projects from
two-thirds to 80 percent.
Charles A. Wellman, speaking for the National League of Insured Savings Assns., said the Administration  was
right in trying to aid moderate and low-income families through the 40-year mortgage plan and public housing
projects, but he said these should be financed through direct federal loans. Wellman said private lenders would be
unwilling to risk capital on the type of loans necessary to execute the two programs.
Organization Views
April 6 – E. J. Burke, president of the National Assn. of Home Builders, opposed the authorization of 100,000 public
housing units.
Dwight D. Townsend of the Cooperative League of the U.S.A. endorsed the provision for cooperative apartments.
April 7 – Nathaniel Keith, president of the National Housing Conference, endorsed all features of S 1478.
The mayors of Boston, Chicago, New Haven, Conn., and Norfolk, Va., speaking for the American Municipal Assn.,
supported the Housing Act of 1961 enthusiastically, particularly the urban renewal provisions.
Cowles Andrus of the American Bankers Assn. opposed the 40-year mortgage provision for moderate-income
families. It would reduce monthly housing costs by only about 5 percent, he said.
April 10 - - Representing the Americans for Democratic Action, Leon Keyserling, economic adviser to former
President Truman, called the measure a “kiddie car” rather than an omnibus housing bill and said a more massive
federal housing program was needed to meet the nation's needs. He suggested an increase in the authorization for
public housing units and for an increase in the $750-million fund to be used by the FNMA for experimental housing.
P.N. Brownstein of the Veterans Administration  supported provisions in S 1478 extending the VA's two housing
programs – one insuring home loans to veterans and the other providing direct home loans to veterans in areas
where private capital was unavailable.
April 11 – The Chamber of Commerce of the U.S., through its spokesman, Stuart Davis, opposed most of the
features in S 1478, particularly the expanded public housing program. It favored the extension of the FHA mortgage
insurance program but urged Congress to remove the 6-percent interest rate ceiling on FHA-insured mortgages. It
also supported the proposed $10,000, 25-year home improvement loan-insurance program.
Reuben Johnson of the National Farmers Union recommended an increase in the authorization for farm housing.
Oscar H. Brinkman of the National Apartment Owners Assn., urged the Subcommittee to reject the bill.
Philip Will Jr. of the American Institute of Architects supported the bill.
April 12 – Curtis E. Huber of the National Assn. of Real Estate Boards said grants for urban renewal should be
denied cities which did not enforce housing codes. Huber also offered an alternative to the Administration 's
public housing program under which low-income families living in private dwellings would receive rent-subsidies
from federal and local governments. The NAREB opposed the 40-year mortgage plan but backed the provision for
FHA-insured home improvement loans.
Sen. Jacob K. Javits (R N.Y.) proposed an amendment to create a Limited Profit Mortgage Corp. to aid moderate-
income families.
Afl-Cio Testimony
April 13 – Boris Shishkin, the AFL-CIO's housing specialist, called the Administration  bill “a forward looking
approach” but said it fell short of current needs. He said the provision that would increase the special assistance
fund of the Federal National Mortgage Assn. by $750 million should be increased to $3 billion. (The “Fannie Mae”
special fund enabled the Government to buy up mortgages held by banks and commercial lending institutions, thus
making more capital available for new mortgages.) The figure proposed by the Kennedy Administration  would
be enough to build or rehabilitate only 75,000 new units, Shishkin said, and should be “increased to at least $3
billion to be allocated among the various programs of housing for moderate income families.”
Shishkin also called for the construction of 400,000 federally subsidized public housing units instead of the 100,000
proposed by the Administration , a 10-year program of grants for urban renewal at the rate of $625 million per
year instead of the Administration 's proposed four-year program at the same rate, a 100 percent increase in
the Kennedy request for $50 million in public facility loans and an increase of $50 million in the President's proposal
for a five-year $1,350,000,000 authorization for direct loans for college housing.
7/2/09 12:05 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 9 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1372857&type=hitlist&num=0
Jack Adair, speaking for the Mortgage Bankers Assn., criticized the provision in the bill authorizing the Federal
Housing Authority to insure no-down payment, 40-year mortgages on homes costing up to $15,000. “The 40-year
mortgage has, we believe, almost nothing to commend it,” he said. “It puts the honest borrower at hazard and
encourages default by the irresponsible borrower. It seriously increases the lender's risk unless he is merely to act
as the risk-free agent of the Government. It deprives the market of a return of funds it needs for the expansion of
volume. It is deceptive, unsound and self-defeating.”
Adair also criticized the Administration 's proposal to provide FHA insurance for $10,000, 25-year home
improvement loans.
Robert M. Morgan of the National Assn. of Mutual Savings Banks supported most of the bill but criticized the 40-
year mortgage proposal.
Jack Wood, housing secretary of the National Assn. for the Advancement of Colored People, said, “Federally aided
housing programs have spawned a pattern of residential segregation and discrimination that grips this nation like a
vise.” He said Congress should amend the bill's policy declaration to provide that all “dwelling units, services and
other facilities” aided in any way by the Government be available to all American citizens without regard to race,
color, religion or national origin.”
April 14 – Robert C. Weaver, Administrator of the Housing and Home Finance Agency, said the Administration
had no plans to lower the premium rate on FHA home insurance in the near future. He said the Administration
would not object to receiving discretionary authority from Congress to reduce the rate from its current level of one-
half-of one percent to one-fourth of one percent, but said “it appears unlikely such discretional authority would be
used.”
Subcommittee Action
The Housing Subcommittee April 21 approved the Administration 's omnibus housing bill and added to it three
major provisions:
A program of federal grants to be used to purchase open land for park areas; the “open spaces” provision was one
of the recommendations in President Kennedy's March 9 housing message but was deleted from the draft
legislation because separate legislation (S 858, S 1671)had been introduced by Sen. Harrison A. Williams (D N.J.).
(See below)
Extension of the veterans' direct home loan program with authorizations totaling $1.2 billion to finance the program
from fiscal 1961 through fiscal 1967. This provision was part of a bill (HR 5723) passed by the House April 13. (See
story p. 201)
Extension of the college housing loan program with an authorization of $100 million to be used immediately and
additional authorizations of $250 million a year for fiscal years 1961-65. Extension of the college housing loans was
recommended by President Kennedy in his special message on education. (For text, see p. 874)
Open Spaces Bill
The “open spaces” provisions of the omnibus housing bill approved by the Housing Subcommittee had been
introduced by Sen. Harrison A. Williams (D N.J.) Feb. 9 as S 858. It authorized appropriations of $100 million a year
for five years, through fiscal 1966, for federal grants to state and local governments for the purchase of open space
land (defined as predominantly undeveloped) to be included in urban area development plans. The grants were
limited to 25 percent of the estimated acquisition cost of the land, or to 35 percent if the land was located in two or
more political jurisdictions. It also authorized use of the grants to promote cluster residential developments in which
there would be included at least 25 acres of open space.
The HHFA April 14 recommended amendments to S 858 cutting the total authorization of the bill to $100 million,
removing the aid to cluster developments and authorizing federal loans for the purchase of open land to be used in
the public or private future development of a growing urban area. Williams April 18 introduced a bill (S 1671)
incorporating the HHFA recommendations.
The Housing Subcommittee April 20 held hearings on both S 858 and S 1671.
TESTIMONY – April 20 – Angus McDonald of the National Farmers Union said the bill would “make a small
beginning in a rational approach” to the building of new extensions in areas “adjacent to our monster cities.”
Spencer M. Smith Jr. of the Citizens Committee on Natural resources said the proposal would provide “sufficient
incentive to local communities” to establish comprehensive urban development plans. Smith said communities were
limited in the amount of bond indebtedness they could undertake and frequently did not have easy access to low-
interest loans.
Fred M. Packard of the Fairfax County, Va., Park Authority said the open land must be purchased immediately or
the “opportunity will be lost forever.” He said the proposal was basically a conservation program.
ACTION – The full Banking and Currency Committee May 18 approved S 1478 by a 10-5 vote. The Committee
considered the measure for three days in executive session, May 16-18, accepting virtually all the provisions
recommended by President Kennedy and HHFA Administrator Weaver. Voting for the bill were Democrats
7/2/09 12:05 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 10 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1372857&type=hitlist&num=0
recommended by President Kennedy and HHFA Administrator Weaver. Voting for the bill were Democrats
Sparkman (Ala.), Douglas (Ill.), Clark (Pa.), Proxmire (Wis.), Williams (N.J.), Muskie (Maine), Long (Mo.) and
Neuberger (Ore.) and Republicans Bush (Conn.) and Javits (N.Y.). Opposing the bill were Democrats Robertson
(Va.), the Committee chairman, and Blakley (Texas) and Republicans Capehart (Ind.), Bennett (Utah) and Beall
(Md.).
The most controversial feature of the omnibus housing bill – the proposal to have the Federal Housing 
Administration  insure 40-year, no-down-payment mortgages on low-cost homes – was cleared by the Committee
by a 9-6 vote May 17 after a substitute plan offered by Javits was rejected. The 40-year, no-down-payment
mortgages were intended to provide homes for moderate-income families who would not be able to afford houses at
current market rates. The Javits substitute proposed to accomplish the same purpose by authorizing a $2-billion
bond issue to finance loans by a new Government corporation to cooperatives and limited-profit corporations to build
low-cost apartments and homes. The Javits plan was rejected by a 3-11 vote.
One of the two major changes made by the Committee in the Subcommittee-approved version of the bill was the
deletion of an authorization, written into the bill by the Subcommittee, granting two increases of $750 million each for
the FNMA special assistance fund, one to support new programs created by the bill, the other to support existing
programs. The Committee granted $750 million over-all for both purposes. The extra $750 million was dropped by a
14-1 vote of the full Committee after the HHFA said the extra money was not necessary.
The only major Administration  recommendation that failed to survive Committee action was a proposal that
repayment-defaults on the 40-year mortgage plan could be made good by the FHA in either cash or debentures.
Currently, the FHA could repay lenders for losses through defaults only in debentures. The Administration  had
requested the change to make the 40-year mortgage plan more attractive to private investors, but it encountered
stiff opposition in Congress and in banking circles.
The Committee interrupted its consideration of S 1478 May 17 to report out an emergency resolution (S J Res 89 –
S Rept 261) providing an additional $1 billion in home mortgage insurance authority for FHA, raising the limit on
insured loans to $38.8 billion. Sparkman, Chairman of the Housing Subcommittee, explained that the extra authority
was necessary to keep the FHA mortgage insurance program going until S 1478 cleared Congress and was signed
into law. The omnibus housing bill would extend the FHA program until Oct. 1, 1965 and remove the dollar limit on
its insuring authority.
The emergency resolution was cleared by Congress May 18 by voice vote in both the Senate and House.
Bill Reported
The Banking and Currency Committee May 19 reported a clean omnibus housing bill (S 1922 – S Rept 281)
carrying an authorization of $6,397,000,000 (includes $207 million reauthorized for farm housing but does not count
the eventual cost of public housing).
The report said the bill, in accord with the President's requests, was designed to stimulate the economy by providing
eased credit for commercial homebuilding; to furnish new housing to two groups needing it badly, moderate-income
families (those with incomes from $4,000 to $6,000) and low-income families (under $4,000); to help relieve urban
congestion by providing aid for development of mass transportation systems for metropolitan areas; to help relieve
urban blight by continuing the urban-renewal program and establishing a new federal program to aid cities to
develop “open space” areas; and to continue several older programs like farm housing, veterans' direct loans for
housing, as well as to extend Federal Housing Administration  mortgage-loan guarantees.
A secondary feature in many of the new or extended programs was adjustment of programs so that maximum use
would be made of existing buildings, which could be rehabilitated rather than replaced, in order to broaden the
amount of housing available in urban-blight and low-income areas.
The bill established five new categories of mortgage loans that could be insured by the FHA against loss by the
lender, including:
1. Forty-year, no-downpayment, limited-interest (5 to 6 percent) loans, made to commercial developers, for construction of
sales housing for moderate-income families. Similar long-term loans (not specifically limited to 40 years) for construction
of rental housing of five units or more. The builder was required to put up 10 percent equity.
2. Long-term, no equity, low-interest loans (at below the market rate), made to non-profit organizations and public
agencies, for construction and rehabilitation of five-family (or larger) dwellings for moderate-income families.
3. Twenty-five year, limited-interest (no more than 6 percent) loans for improvement of existing dwellings within urban-
renewal areas or one-to-four-family dwellings outside such areas. Loans under this program could be as high as
$10,000 per family unit. (This program was in addition to the existing home-improvement loan program, see below)
4. Regular mortgage-loans on housing incorporating new and advanced design and techniques.
5. Loans on condominium housing – apartments in a multi-family dwelling that are individually owned and have individual
mortgages.
Other major provisions of the bill: (a) expanded from $50 million to $100 million the revolving direct loan fund for
housing for the elderly, (b) authorized construction of an additional 100,000 public housing units, (c) authorized an
7/2/09 12:05 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 11 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1372857&type=hitlist&num=0
housing for the elderly, (b) authorized construction of an additional 100,000 public housing units, (c) authorized an
additional $2.5 billion for federal urban renewal and planning grants (of which $50 million was set aside for mass
transportation demonstration projects), (d) increased the college housing revolving loan fund by $1.35 billion, (e)
raised the community facilities loan fund from $150 million to $300 million (of which $100 million was reserved for
loans for the construction of mass-transportation systems), (f) authorized FNMA to borrow an additional $750 million
from the Treasury for its special-assistance program, (g) authorized $100 million for federal grants to states and
localities for the acquisition of “open space” land in and around urban areas, (h) extended the FHA regular
mortgage and home-improvement loan-guarantee programs; (i) extended the farm housing program for five years
and continued an existing $207 million authorization in effect, (j) authorized $1.2 billion for veterans' housing loans.
The following Senators filed separate views:
Chairman A. Willis Robertson (D Va.) – Opposed “this extravagant and inflationary” bill,  financed largely, Robertson
said, by “backdoor” spending.
Homer E. Capehart (R Ind.), Wallace F. Bennett (R Utah) and J. Glenn Beall (R Md.) – Said the bill contained many
good features but was full of excesses that created long-range programs, justifying them entirely illogically by reference
to a short-range slow-up in housing starts. The three Senators said that the 40-year middle income programs were
“unsound and unreasonable”, would not add much money to the housing market but simply soak up money already
available in it; that 100,000 additional public housing units were not needed, only 35,000.
Bennett – In additional supplemental views, Bennett said the FHA insurance provision to stimulate long-term, no-equity
loans at below market rate for construction of moderate-income housing by non-profit organizations was really no more
than a disguised program of public housing for middle-income persons.
Jacob K. Javits (R N.Y.) – Said S 1922 as reported “represents a major forward step” but the long-term no-equity,
below-market-rate loan program was not a good way to insure housing for moderate-income families. Javits said up to
1961, FHA mortgage-insurance had been used for commercial, market-rate loans, and that it was not a good idea to
change this precedent in the manner proposed. Javits said a better way to stimulate building of moderate-income
housing was contained in his own proposal to create a Federal Limited Mortgage Profit Corp. which would borrow
money by selling stock on the open market and then lend it at from 4 to 6 percent to builders of housing for moderate
income persons. The FLMPC would receive an initial $100 million stock subscription from the Treasury to get it started,
Javits said.
Floor Action
The Senate June 12, by a 64-25 roll-call vote, passed 5 1922 carrying $6,347,000,000 of which $6,140,000,000
was for VA loans and other housing programs and $207 million was a farm housing program reauthorization. (The
eventual cost of public housing units covered by the bill is not included in the $6,347,000,000 figure. See box on
funds authorized for explanation.) A recommittal motion was tabled, 60-33.
Except for elimination of $100 million for open space development, addition of $50 million for Small Business 
Administration  disaster loans for businesses displaced by housing developments, and modification of the new
loan-insurance programs for moderate-income housing, little change was made by floor amendments, and key
features of the Administration  program were retained. (For voting, see charts p. 580–582)
On the final vote, 12 Republicans and 52 Democrats voted for passage and 17 Republicans and eight Democrats
voted against. Debate began June 1 and action on amendments was completed June 9, after which the Senate put
off passage until June 12.
As expected, the most controversy was on provisions for 40-year, no-downpayment sales and rental housing
programs for moderate-income families. Opposition to these provisions was led by Homer E. Capehart (R Ind.),
ranking Republican member of the Banking and Currency Committee, and by Albert Gore (D Tenn.).
Opponents of the moderate-income section of the bill claimed that it was “unsound” and “impractical.” Cape-hart
said, “I do not see any necessity for the provision,” which he claimed was injecting into the bill “public housing for
so-called middle-income people.” Opponents also said the 40-year term was too long, since the buyer would build
up very little equity in the home for many years. Gore agreed with this view, adding that the provision was not “poor
man's” legislation and actually would contribute little to the encouragement of private home ownership.
Defending the section, Sparkman said, “the price of housing has been continually rising,” and 65 percent of
American families have incomes too low “to purchase the typical FHA house” but too high to qualify for low-cost
public housing.
Moderate-Income Voting
The first vote on the moderate-income housing plan came June 7 on an amendment by Capehart to delete the
section encouraging non-profit organizations and public agencies to build rental housing under what Sparkman
conceded was a “subsidized” interest rate of 3-1/8 percent. The amendment was defeated on a roll-call vote, 41-
50, with 14 Democrats joining 27 Republicans in support. Only four GOP members voted against the amendment.
The Senate then killed, 25-64, a substitute for the Administration  program, offered by Jacob K. Javits (R N.Y.),
to establish a Federal Limited Profit Mortgage Corporation to assist in providing housing for families of moderate
income.
7/2/09 12:05 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 12 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1372857&type=hitlist&num=0
On June 8 the Senate defeated on a 39-57 roll-call vote another Capehart amendment. It would have reduced to
30 years the maximum term of the sales housing plan for moderate-income families. The amendment would have
permitted a home buyer to make payments on the basis of a 40-year mortgage for the first five years, on the basis
of a 30-year mortgage for the next five years, and on the basis of a 20-year mortgage for the final 20-year period.
In a surprise move the Senate then voted, 49-44, to eliminate from the bill both the sales and rental moderate-
income housing programs. The amendment, offered by Gore, was supported by 19 Democrats and 30 Republicans,
opposed by 41 Democrats and three Republicans. Until passage of the Gore amendment, Administration
leaders were confident the bill would pass the Senate without substantial change.
A few hours later, the Senate reversed itself and approved, 47-42, a substitute amendment by Sparkman which
restored the moderate-income housing program in modified form. Forty-three Democrats and four Republicans
supported the Sparkman amendment, while 27 Republicans and 15 Democrats remained in opposition. The
Sparkman amendment was the same as the bill's original moderate-income plan except that for sales housing a
downpayment of 3 percent on the first $13,500 and 10 percent on the remainder, up to a maximum cost of $15,000,
was required. The original bill required no downpayment. Before final approval the Sparkman substitute was
amended by two Capehart amendments accepted by voice vote. One eliminated public agencies from the rental
housing program and the other required that uniform interest rates be established for all classes of borrowers. The
Sparkman amendment narrowly survived, by a vote of 45-46, an amendment by Prescott Bush (R Conn.) to limit the
below-market-rate rental program to displaced families only. A Capehart motion to table the Sparkman substitute
was also defeated on a 42-46 roll-call vote. A Gore amendment to limit the moderate-income program loans to 30
years was defeated when a motion by Wayne Morse (D Ore.) to table it was agreed to on a 47-45 roll-call vote.
Other Amendments
In action on other major amendments, the Senate June 8 turned down by a 34-58 roll-call vote a Capehart
amendment to reduce from 100,000 to 37,000 the number of low-rent public housing units authorized under the bill.
Capehart also sought to reduce by $700 million the $2.5 billion authorized for urban renewal grants, but the
amendment was defeated on a 38-55 roll call. By a 43-51 roll-call vote the Senate also rejected an amendment by
Hubert H. Humphrey (D Minn.) which would have raised from two-thirds to three-fourths the federal share of urban
renewal grants to distressed area cities with populations under 150,000.
An amendment to kill a $50 million authorization for mass transportation demonstration projects was defeated on a
44-46 roll-call vote. The amendment was submitted by Frank Lausche (D Ohio). A point of order made by Lausche
was sustained against an amendment by Joseph S. Clark (D Pa.) which would have provided $500,000 a year for
three years for city planning and urban studies fellowships.
In debate on the home improvement and rehabilitation program, which would supplement the existing $3,500, five-
year program, the Senate rejected on a 35-56 roll-call vote June 7 a Capehart amendment to cut the maximum
loan from $10,000 to $7,000 and the maximum term from 25 to 15 years. At Sparkman's suggestion, another
Capehart amendment was then accepted on a voice vote, reducing the maximum term to 20 years and providing
that such loans must be limited to homes at least 10 years old. The aim of the new program was to rehabilitate old
housing instead of tearing it down, thus making more housing available to moderate-income families.
Among amendments approved by voice vote June 8 was one by Jack Miller (R Iowa) to permit civil defense fallout
shelters to be included in demonstration projects under the public housing section of the bill. On June 7 the Senate
approved an amendment by George A. Smathers (D Fla.) to permit construction under the elderly housing program of
apartments with one or two bedrooms rather than only efficiency-type units. Also approved was an amendment by
J. W. Fulbright (D Ark.) to authorize federal savings and loan associations to lend a maximum of $250,000 to state
business development credit corporations where state associations are permitted under local law to make such
loans in their states.
The $100 million for open spaces was removed June 7 when the Senate agreed, 46-42, to an amendment by
Francis Case (R S.D.).
In general debate on the bill June 1 and 2, Banking Committee Chairman A. Willis Robertson (D Va.) said it was
“extravagant and inflationary” and largely supported by “some kind of backdoor Treasury financing.”
Sparkman said the principal aim of the bill was to stimulate construction of housing through the private enterprise
system and in an atmosphere of concern about the state of the national economy and “the continued lack of
sustained vitality shown in the homebuilding industry.”
Sen. Wallace F. Bennett (R Utah), in commenting on the bill's cost, said he would not be so concerned about “such
extravagance if I thought that our housing situation justified it.” He said the facts did not bear out the contention that
a large number of citizens are homeless.
Prescott Bush (R Conn.) objected to “lumping all these programs – some sound, others questionable – into an
omnibus bill, and presenting it to the Senate on a take-it-or-leave-it-basis.”
Debate on passage June 12 largely concerned the cost of programs authorized under the bill. Banking and Currency
Committee Chairman A. Willis Robertson (D Va.) claimed the bill would increase the fiscal 1962 deficit by $500 million.
Richard B. Russell (D Ga.) said, “The Senate no longer reckons any program in terms of dollars.… I know it would
not make any difference if there were $99 billion involved. The Senate would vote it with a ‘hurrah’.” Harry F. Byrd (D
7/2/09 12:05 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 13 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1372857&type=hitlist&num=0
Va.) called it the “worst” housing bill ever proposed and attacked not only the “backdoor spending” provisions, but
also what he termed “sidedoor spending” by contract authorizations. Leverett Saltonstall (R Mass.) said it was “too
expansive in cost, in the numerous and far-reaching areas of life it plunges into.”
Supporters pointed to the nation's housing needs as justification for the bill. Joseph S. Clark (D Pa.) said it was the
“best housing bill” proposed during his Senate service. Even with the downpayment requirement added to the
moderate-income housing provision, he said about nine million additional families would be eligible for FHA-insured
loans under the new program. He said the downpayment requirement eliminated about two million families who
otherwise might have been eligible.
Albert Gore (D Tenn.), who led a briefly successful fight June 8 to eliminate the moderate-income housing provision,
noted that five million Americans were unemployed and said, “This condition of our economy makes it imperative
that the Government have a vigorous housing program.” Jacob K. Javits (R N.Y.) denied that the effects of the bill
would be inflationary. He called the bill “one of the greatest affirmations of the ability of our internal institutions” to
meet the nation's needs.
PROVISIONS – The major provisions of S 1922 as passed by the Senate:
Title I, New Housing Programs. Established five new categories of mortgage loans that could be insured by the
Federal Housing Administration :
1. Long-term, limited-interest (5 to 6 percent) loans, made to commercial developers, for construction or rehabilitation of
both sales and rental housing for moderate-income families. Ten percent equity was required for the rental program.
For the one-to-four-family sales housing program, the downpayment was fixed at three percent for the first $13,500, 10
percent for the remainder up to $18,000 and 30 percent over $18,000. The maximum mortgage for single-family
housing was set at $15,000 in a high cost area and at $38,000 for a four-family dwelling in a high cost area.
2. FHA authority to contract for new guarantees under these programs was limited to July 1, 1963.
3. Long-term, no-equity loans (at below the market rate interest), made to non-profit organizations for construction and
rehabilitation of five-family (or larger) rental dwellings for moderate-income families.
4. Twenty-year, limited-interest (6 percent maximum) loans for improvement of existing dwellings (more than 10-years old)
within urban-renewal areas or one-to-four-family dwellings outside such areas. Loans could be as high as $10,000 per
family unit. (This program supplemented the existing home-improvement program, which was extended in Title V.)
5. Regular mortgage loans on housing incorporating new and advanced design and techniques.
6. Loans on condominium housing – apartments in a multi-family dwelling that are individually owned and have individual
mortgages.
Title II, Elderly and Public Housing. Expanded to $100 million the 1959 authorization of a $50 million revolving loan
fund to make direct loans to non-profit groups at below the market rate for construction of housing for the elderly.
Expanded the types of agencies eligible to receive such loans from the Community Facilities Administration .
Authorized (in effect) the Public Housing Administration  to contract for construction by local public housing
agencies of an additional 100,000 public housing units.
Authorized $10 million for demonstration programs (by local housing authorities) experimenting with new methods of
providing housing for low-income families.
Raised the limit on per room expenditures for public housing for the elderly from $2,500 to $3,000.
Title III, Urban Renewal and Planning. Authorized an additional $2.5 billion in federal capital grants for urban
renewal projects. Of this amount, $50 million was set aside for federal grants to local agencies to cover two-thirds of
the cost of mass-transportation demonstration projects. (See urban planning, this Title, and Title IV, below, for
additional mass-transport authority)
Authorized $50 million for 3 1/2 percent disaster loans by the Small Business Administration  to small
businesses forced to vacate by urban-renewal projects or other governmental action.
Encouraged development of moderate-income and public housing accommodations in urban-renewal areas, clearing
of blighted areas around colleges and hospitals and rehabilitation by private builders of housing in urban-renewal
areas by technical changes in existing law.
Permitted local urban-renewal agencies to sell land and property – at a lower price than might be obtained from
private commercial builders – to cooperatives, non-profit organizations and public agencies (and also to certain
private builders operating under Title I, above) who intended to build moderate-income rental units on the land.
Raised an existing authorization from $20 million to $100 million for grants to states and localities for planning
various types of urban and small-city rehabilitation projects, and raised the federal share from half to two-thirds of
the cost of the planning project. Made clear that mass-transport studies could be financed by the planning fund. In
addition, gave states blanket authority in advance to conclude interstate compacts to undertake joint planning
7/2/09 12:05 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 14 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1372857&type=hitlist&num=0
addition, gave states blanket authority in advance to conclude interstate compacts to undertake joint planning
projects.
Title IV, College Housing, Community Facilities and Mass Transport. Raised from $1,675,000,000 to $3,025,000,000
(in six steps by July 1, 1965) the federal revolving fund for low-interest, long-term (up to 50-year) loans to colleges,
universities and hospitals for construction of housing.
Raised the limit on the portion of the fund that could be spent for dining halls, student centers and other non-
housing facilities on college and university campuses to $300 million and the limit on hospital housing for nurses
and interns to $225 million (in both cases, in six steps by July 1, 1965).
Raised from $150 million to $300 million the community facilities loan fund for local water, gas and sewage plant
improvements.
Earmarked $100 million of the increase for low-interest loans to metropolitan agencies for construction of mass-
transportation systems.
Title V, National Housing Act Changes. Authorized the Federal National Mortgage Assn. (FNMA) to borrow an
additional $750 million from the Treasury for its special-assistance program (for a total of $1.7 billion.)
Extended the existing home-improvement loan guarantee program for two years, to Oct. 31, 1963, without
increasing the $1,750,000,000-limit on the aggregate of loans insurable at any one time. (Loans under the program
are limited to $3,500 and five years. Title I, above, contained a new, 20-year home-loan improvement program.)
Removed the dollar limit on the aggregate of loans that could be insured by the FHA for all general mortgage-
insurance programs. (The limit had been raised to $38.8 billion May 25 in S J Res 89 – PL 87-38.)
Made Oct. 1, 1965 the cut-off date on the FHA's authority to insure new loans.
Extended for one year, through Oct. 1, 1962, the FHA's authority to insure mortgages on housing for military
personnel and civilian armed-services employees in areas around defense installations (so-called Capehart housing)
and on similar housing around National Aeronautics and Space Administration  and Atomic Energy Commission
installations.
Raised from 25,000 to 28,000 the number of housing units that could be built under the Capehart program after
June 30, 1959. (An identical provision was in the military construction bill (HR 5000) sent to the President June 13.)
Permitted the FHA to reduce its premium on any regular mortgage insurance from one-half of 1 percent to one-
quarter of 1 percent.
Title VI, Other Programs. Extended the farm housing program for five years, through June 30, 1966, and continued
in effect, without additional financing, $207 million in still unused authorizations.
Extended the Voluntary Home Mortgage Credit Program for four years, through Oct. 1, 1965.
Extended World War II and Korean War veterans' entitlement to Veterans Administration  guaranteed and direct
home loans until 10 years from the date of discharge plus an additional period equal to one year for each four
months of active duty, but no later than July 25, 1967 for World War II veterans and Jan. 31, 1975 for Korean War
veterans.
Authorized $1.2 billion in Treasury advances to the VA, spread over seven fiscal years, 1961-67, for the direct loan
program. (Extension of the two VA programs was similar to that provided in HR 5723, passed by the House April
13.)
Amendments Accepted
June 2 – George D. Aiken (R Vt.) – Permit public facility loans to privately owned water service companies and
cooperatives. Voice vote.
Ralph W. Yarborough (D Texas) – Extend the guaranteed loan program for World War II and Korean War veterans.
Voice.
Homer E. Capehart (R Ind.) – Provide that mortgages shall bear an interest rate uniformly established by the Federal
Housing Commissioner for all classes of borrowers. Voice.
June 6 – Ernest Gruening (D Alaska) – Increase the construction cost limit for low cost public housing and elderly
housing in Alaska. Voice.
June 7 – Capehart – Limit the maximum term on new home improvement and rehabilitation loans to 20 years rather
than 25 years; limit such loans to homes that are at least 10 years old. Voice.
J. W. Fulbright (D Ark.) – Authorize federal savings and loan associations to lend a maximum of $250,000 to state
business development credit corporations, if state associations are permitted under local law to make such loans in
their states. Voice.
A. Willis Robertson (D Va.) – Require any aid recipient to keep such records as the- Housing and Home Finance
7/2/09 12:05 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 15 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1372857&type=hitlist&num=0
Agency might require for audit purposes. Voice.
George A. Smathers (D Fla.) – Permit construction for the elderly of apartments with one or two bedrooms rather than
only efficiency-type units. Voice.
June 8 – Philip A. Hart (D Mich.), modified by Sparkman – Allow existing non-profit housing in urban renewal areas
to be refinanced under the bill's new long-term, low-interest loan provisions. Voice.
Albert Gore (D Tenn.) – Eliminate the 40-year, no-downpayment moderate-income sales and rental housing
provisions. Roll call, 49-44. (The provisions later were substantially restored by the Sparkman amendment, below.)
John Stennis (D Miss.) – Reduce the number of additional Capehart military housing units authorized for construction
from 12,000 to 3,000. Voice.
Francis Case (R S.D.) – Eliminate authorization for a new $100 million program of federal grants to assist states and
localities in creating “open space” areas in and around urban centers. Roll call, 46-42. Jack Miller (R Iowa) – Permit
civil defense shelters to be included in demonstration projects under the public housing provisions of the bill. Voice.
Hiram L. Fong (R Hawaii) – Make lessee farmers eligible for farm housing loans. Voice.
John J. Sparkman (D Ala.) – Substitute amendment (as amended by adoption by voice vote of two Capehart
amendments, one barring public agencies from participating in the rental program and the other assuring that the
same rate of interest is charged to all classes of borrowers) – Restore to the bill in modified form the moderate-
income housing provisions eliminated by the Gore amendment (above). Roll call, 47-42.
Sparkman – Authorize an additional $50 million for 3 1/2 percent disaster loans by the Small Business 
Administration  to small businesses forced to vacate by government action. Voice.
Amendments Rejected
June 7 – Capehart – Reduce the maximum insurable loan from $10,000 to $7,000 and the maximum term from 25
to 15 years under the home improvement and rehabilitation loan program. Roll call, 35-56.
Vance Hartke (D Ind.) – Encourage construction of housing for the elderly through certain tax incentives. Rejected by
tabling motion. Voice.
Capehart – Eliminate below-the-market-rate rental program for moderate-income housing. Roll call, 41-50.
Jacob K. Javits (R N.Y.) – Substitute for the Administration  proposal an authorization for a Federal Limited Profit
Mortgage Corporation to assist in providing housing for families of moderate income. Roll call, 25-64.
June 8 – Capehart – Reduce from 40 to 30 years the maximum term of moderate-income sales housing mortgages.
Roll call, 39-57.
Capehart – Reduce from 100,000 to 37,000 the number of public housing units authorized by the bill. Roll call, 34-
58.
Capehart – Reduce by $700 million the $2.5 billion authorized for urban renewal grants. Roll call, 38-55.
Hubert H. Humphrey (D Minn.) – Raise from two-thirds to three-fourths the federal share of the cost of urban renewal
projects in distressed area cities with a population under 150,000. Roll call, 43-51.
Frank J. Lausche (D Ohio) – Eliminate $50 million authorized for federal grants to assist local communities in
financing mass transportation demonstration projects. Roll call, 44-46.
Javits – Authorize veterans' loans in so-called housing credit shortage areas. Roll call, 28-59.
Prescott Bush (R Conn.) – Amend the Sparkman substitute amendment (above) by limiting the below-the-market
rate rental housing loans to families displaced by government action. Roll call, 45-46.
Gore – Amend the Sparkman substitute amendment (above) by limiting moderate-income sales housing program
loans to 30 rather than 40 years. Rejected by tabling motion. Roll call, 47-45.
House
COMMITTEE – Banking and Currency, Housing Subcommittee.
HELD HEARINGS – April 24-28, May 1-4, 1961 on the Administration 's omnibus housing bill (HR 6028), and
approved the bill May 24.
Housing and Home Finance Administrator Robert C. Weaver April 24 read a statement similar to the one he had
given to the Senate Housing Subcommittee April 4, in which he emphasized the need for a measure that would
reach middle and low-income families.
7/2/09 12:05 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 16 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1372857&type=hitlist&num=0
Weaver indicated that the Administration  might accept several amendments to the housing bill that were
proposed by Subcommittee Chairman Albert Rains (D Ala.). Among these were: a cut in the minimum down-payment
requirements on FHA-insured mortgages, a reduction in the one-half percentage point premium on FHA mortgages
(this charge goes into an FHA reserve fund to be used on mortgage defaults), and an authorization for the Federal
National Mortgage Assn. to make short-term loans to builders who put up federally insured mortgages as security.
Two representatives of the U.S. Conference of Mayors April 25 backed the urban renewal section of the housing
bill. The American Municipal Assn. April 26 also endorsed the urban renewal provision and supported the provision
for low-rent public housing.
J.D. Williams, president of the State Universities Assn. and spokesman for that and five other organizations of
higher education, including the American Council on Education, April 27 endorsed the Administration 's college
housing loan proposal but said there was need for annual authorizations of $350 million, instead of the proposed
$250 million, through fiscal 1966.
R. Manning Brown Jr., appearing for the American Life Convention and Life Insurance Assn. of America, April 28
criticized the bill's provisions for 40-year, no-down-payment loans to moderate-income families and for FHA-insured
loans for rental and cooperative housing for low-income families not eligible for public housing. He endorsed the
FHA home improvement program.
John D. Lesure, spokesman for the American Hotel Assn., said Congress should put pressure on the FHA to insure
loans for conversion of old hotels into housing for the elderly.
On May 1 the National Assn. of Housing and Redevelopment Officials endorsed most provisions of the bill.
The American Hospital Assn. May 2 urged the Committee to help urban hospitals acquire land for expansion by
bringing them under Section 112 of the 1949 Housing Act, which declared that the cost of land purchased by
universities could be included in the local government's share of the cost of an urban renewal plan.
E.J. Burke Jr., president of the National Assn. of Home Builders, supported most of the bill's provisions concerning
FHA and FNMA. He said the experimental program to encourage private housing for low- and moderate-income
families would help builders develop the low-priced “compact-car” type of house which “is the first of our principal
objectives for this year.”
Burke said NAHB “questioned the wisdom” of a provision authorizing, for certain programs, the payment of FHA
insurance on defaulted properties in cash instead of debentures, which he called “a vital feature in assuring
soundness of FHA insurance funds.”
Spokesmen for the AFL-CIO and Americans for Democratic Action May 3 supported the bill, but both said it did not
go far enough to meet all of the needs of middle- and low-income families. Boris Shishkin, housing specialist for the
AFL-CIO, made the same proposals he had made in the Senate hearing.
Speaking for the ADA, Edward P. Eichler, a California home builder, said housing legislation should concern itself
with the social and aesthetic result of a project, a community, a city or a metropolitan area as well as with the
adequacy of housing. He said ADA approved the bill even though it did not go far enough for middle income
families served by already existing Government programs or by private industry.
Jack Adair, chairman of the legislative committee of the Mortgage Bankers Assn. of America, criticized the provision
authorizing the Federal Housing Authority to insure 40-year, no-down-payment mortgages on moderate priced
homes.
May 4 – Howard Bertsch, administrator of the Farmers Home Administration , testified in favor of the section in
HR 6028 extending for five more years the farm housing loan program, which is administered by the Farmers Home
Administration .
A spokesman for the National Farmers Union again recommended an increase in funds authorized to the Farmers
Home Administration .
Clyde T. Ellis and Robert D. Partridge of the National Rural Electric Cooperative Assn. supported the extension of
the farm home loan program but proposed that the bill be amended to authorize the Farmers Home 
Administration  to make direct loans to nonfarm rural housing in the open country and in small rural towns.
Stuart Davis, speaking for the Chamber of Commerce of the U.S. May 5, opposed most sections of the bill. He
urged Congress to withdraw the Federal Government from community development programs and let local
communities assume responsibility. He said the Government had taken authority from local governments in public
housing and urban renewal and had failed to do the job.
Herbert J. Bingham of the American Municipal Assn. said HR 6028 was “magnificent” and “a major breakthrough in
the fight against slums.” He said the bill would mean decent housing for all economic groups.
Richard C. Lee, mayor of New Haven, Conn. and spokesman for the U.S. Conference of Mayors, endorsed the bill,
praising its urban renewal provisions and the program for middle income housing.
7/2/09 12:05 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 17 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1372857&type=hitlist&num=0
Bill Reported
The Banking and Currency Committee June 1 reported an amended omnibus housing bill (HR 6028 – H Rept 447).
The Committee had approved the bill May 26, by a 13-5 vote, in substantially the same form as approved by the
Housing Subcommittee May 24.
The Committee termed the bill “a much-needed forward step” and said it represented “a well-thought-out program”
which would make possible “an accelerated attack on the problems of urban blight and improving housing
conditions, and aiding orderly growth of small and large communities alike.” Singled out for special attention were
the moderate-income housing portions of the bill. The Committee said housing for families of modest income was a
“neglected area” and that the facts refuted the contention that no problem existed.
Excluding the cost of public housing grants, the Committee estimated that total new authorizations under the bill
would amount to $4,931,000,000. In addition, $207 million for farm housing and $760 million for FNMA were
reauthorized or transferred from other authorizations for a total of $5,898,000,000. No funds were included for the
veterans' loan program.
In separate views, 10 Republican members of the Committee said the overriding issue in the housing bill was “fiscal
responsibility.” The bill, they said, contained “excessive budget spending authorizations” as well as “unsound and
unnecessary provisions.”
The minority said the bill authorized $8.8 billion in “backdoor spending,” including $3,146,000,000 for public housing
grants, and $248.5 million through the regular appropriations process. Rep. Paul A. Fino (R N.Y.) and Rep. Seymour
Halpern (R N.Y.) were the only GOP members who did not sign the minority report.
Floor Action
The House June 22, by a 235-178 roll-call vote, passed HR 6028 with only one major modification. Supporting
passage were 210 Democrats and 25 Republicans. Thirty-eight Democrats and 140 Republicans were opposed.
(For voting, see chart p. 530)
In order to soften opposition to the bill, Rep. Albert Rains (D Ala.), the bill's floor manager and Housing
Subcommittee chairman, early in the debate offered an amendment to modify the controversial provision for no-
downpayment sales housing to moderate-income families. The amendment, which was adopted by voice, reduced
the maximum mortgage term from 40 to 35 years and required a 3 percent downpayment on single-unit houses
costing up to $15,000. The bill originally required no downpayment, but did require an initial payment of $200 which
could include closing costs. The amendment also eliminated the provision for two, three and four-family moderate-
income sales units. The moderate-income rental unit provisions were left untouched. On a 156-171 teller vote, the
House defeated an amendment to the Rains amendment, offered by Edgar W. Hiestand (R Calif.), to cut the
maximum term from 35 to 30 years.
In the key vote during the seven-hour debate, the House beat back an early Republican attempt to substitute for
the Administration  bill an amendment by Gordon L. McDonough (R Calif.), ranking GOP member of the Housing
Subcommittee. The amendment, providing for authorizations of $1.1 billion, was defeated 164-197 on a teller vote. It
would have extended for one year the Federal Housing Administration  Title I home repair and improvement
insurance authority, the FHA mortgage insurance authorization, the Capehart military housing program and the
voluntary home mortgage credit program. The direct loan program for housing for the elderly would have been
increased by an additional $50 million in loan authority. One-year programs would have been provided for urban
renewal ($500 million authorization increase), college housing ($300 million increase), public facilities ($50 million
increase) and farm housing loans (reviving an expiring $207 million loan authorization). The GOP substitute was
also designed to cut “backdoor” spending provisions from the bill by requiring that new authorizations have
Appropriations Committee approval before funds could be committed by contract or withdrawn from the Treasury.
A last-ditch attempt by Republican leaders to recommit the bill with instructions to insert the language of the
McDonough substitute amendment was defeated on a 197-215 roll-call vote. The motion was supported by 39
Democrats and 158 Republicans, with 208 Democrats and seven Republicans opposed.
Amendments Defeated
Among the major amendments defeated was one by Rep. A. Sydney Herlong Jr. (D Fla.) to cut out the 100,000 public
housing units. The amendment was defeated on a 141-168 teller vote. Other amendments defeated included the
following: Require a minimum standard housing code for cities applying for federal urban renewal or public housing
grants, teller vote – 92-141; Require, as a condition for federal urban renewal loans or grants, approval of the
project by a majority of the locality's residents in a referendum vote, teller vote – 101-138; Forbid discrimination in
public housing projects, teller vote – 132-178.
Sharp and often heated debate centered on the McDonough GOP substitute amendment. Rains, referring to the
Committee bill's $500 million public facilities authorization and the additional $200 million farm housing authorization,
said the GOP substitute, which cut these authorizations, would take out of the bill “every single item in which my
Southern colleagues are interested, every item in which the Far West is interested, except for the big cities.”
Republican speakers pointed out that the Administration  had requested only $50 million for public facilities and
no increase in the farm housing loan authorization. GOP leader Charles A. Halleck (R Ind.) said the substitute “will
7/2/09 12:05 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 18 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1372857&type=hitlist&num=0
meet upcoming housing needs.” He called the Democratic bill “reckless, extravagant, irresponsible and unnecessary”
and warned that in going “too far, too fast” the bill would be a threat to the economy.
Discussing the Herlong amendment to cut the public housing authorization, Rains said this was “the one thing in
this bill which amounts to charity and we ought not to kill it.” Alfred E. Santangelo (D N.Y.) said the large states and
urban areas provide most of the federal tax dollars and he urged those “gentlemen whom we have helped in the
past in your wheat programs and your corn programs” to show the people of the large cities the “same kind of
Americanism and consideration.”
General debate on the bill June 21 largely concerned what opponents considered features abrogating Congressional
authority, particularly the bill's “backdoor” spending provisions and four-year extensions of some programs.
Republicans also criticized the bill's sponsors for not including the cost of public housing subsidies in estimating the
cost of the bill at $4.9 billion. The GOP's cost figure was $9.5 billion.
Differences with Senate
PROVISIONS – As passed by the House, the bill differed from the Senate bill in the following major respects:
Limited the moderate-income sales housing program to single-family homes. Senate: also included two, three and
four-family units.
Provided for a moderate-income sales housing program with a 3 percent downpayment requirement on the
purchase price, including closing costs, and a maximum 35-year term. Senate: 3 percent down up to the first
$13,500 of value, then 10 percent up to a maximum mortgage of $15,000, with a 40-year maximum term.
Made public bodies or agencies, other than local public housing authorities, eligible as borrowers under the below-
the-market-rate, moderate-income rental housing plan. Senate: no comparable provision.
Limited the below-market-rate, moderate-income rental housing program to two years. Senate: no comparable
provision.
Authorized $100 million increase for the direct loan fund for housing for the elderly. Senate: $50 million.
Did not include any authorization for grants to public or private bodies to develop and demonstrate new and
improved means of providing housing for low-income families. Senate: $10 million.
Made business firms displaced by urban renewal eligible for 3 percent loans through the Small Business 
Administration , but did not authorize a specific amount for this purpose. Senate: provided for 4-1/8 percent loans
to assist reestablishment of small business concerns displaced by urban renewal or other governmental action and
authorized $50 million for these loans.
Authorized a $30 million increase in urban planning grants. Senate: $80 million.
Authorized an increase of $2 billion in urban renewal grants. Senate: $2.5 billion.
Did not include veterans' housing funds or provisions. Senate: $1.2 billion. (See story p. 201)
Provided no funds for mass transportation demonstration and construction projects. Senate: $50 million for
demonstration, $100 million in construction grants.
Authorized a $500 million increase in the community facilities loan fund. Senate: $50 million.
Authorized a $1.2 billion increase in college housing loans. Senate: $1.35 billion.
Increased the FNMA special assistance fund by $1.51 billion. Senate: $750 million.
Increased the maximum mortgage amount on one and two-family homes under the FHA regular home mortgage
insurance program to $27,500. Senate: no comparable provision.
Raised the maximum maturity on regular FHA-insured sales housing mortgages from 30 to 40 years. Senate: no
comparable provision.
Authorized $100 million in federal grants to states and localities to assist in acquiring open space land in and around
urban centers for park and recreation development. Senate: no comparable provision.
Increased the authorization for farm housing loans by $200 million, and extended an existing $207 million
authorization, for a $407 million total. Senate: extended to $207 million only.
Amendments Accepted
June 22 – Albert Rains (D Ala.) – Require a 3-percent downpayment rather than no downpayment for moderate-
income sales housing costing up to $15,000 and reduce the maximum mortgage term from 40 to 35 years; eliminate
two, three and four-family moderate-income sales housng provisions. Voice vote.
Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. (D Mass.) – Permit an expenditure by an educational institution or hospital to be considered as a
7/2/09 12:05 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 19 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1372857&type=hitlist&num=0
local grant-in-aid on an urban renewal project if made not more than seven years, rather than five years, prior to
the Housing Administrator's authorization of a loan or grant for the project. Voice.
Rains – Eliminate the requirement that the Secretary of Defense certify the need for defense-impacted housing near
service bases. Voice.
Rains – Terminate mortgage insurance under the Capehart military housing program after Oct. 1, 1962 and limit the
total unit authorization to 28,000. Voice.
Seymour Halpern (R N.Y.) – Permit FHA to insure improvement loans made to cooperative housing constructed
between 1947 and 1950 for World War II veterans. Voice.
Fred Marshall (D Minn.) – Simplify administration  of farm housing loans by adjusting per diem rates for
committeemen and by clarifying their duties. Voice.
G. Elliott Hagan (D Ga.) – Authorize sale of Nathaneal Greene Villa housing project to the city of Savannah, Ga.
Voice.
Amendments Rejected
June 22 – Gordon L. McDonough (R Calif.) – Substitute for the Committee bill (HR 6028) authorizations of $1.1 billion
for a one-year extension of existing housing programs. Teller vote, 164-197.
Edgar W. Hiestand (R Calif.) – Amend the Rains moderate-income housing amendment (see above) by reducing the
maximum mortgage term from 35 to 30 years. Teller vote, 156-171.
A. Sydney Herlong Jr. (D Fla.) – Eliminate the authorization for 100,000 public housing units. Teller vote, 141-168.
William B. Widnall (R N.J.) – Require cities applying for urban renewal or public housing grants to have a minimum
standards housing code. Standing, 92-141.
McDonough – Require community approval by referendum of an urban renewal project as a condition of federal
loans or grants for the project. Standing, 101-138.
William T. Cahill (R N.J.) – Authorize $50 million for mass transportation demonstration grants; permit urban planning
funds to be used for mass transport planning; provide $100 million for mass transportation construction and
improvement loans. Voice.
McDonough – Eliminate “open space” grant provisions, direct HHFA to study and report to Congress on open space
land problems in urban areas. Standing, 112-151.
Leonard Farbstein (D N.Y.) – Permit inclusion of stores and other nondwelling facilities in public housing projects.
Voice.
William Fitts Ryan (D N.Y.) – Prohibit luxury housing in redeveloped urban renewal areas by establishing a ceiling on
rents in residential housing in such areas. Voice.
John V. Lindsay (R N.Y.) – Prohibit discrimination in federally supported public housing projects. Teller vote, 132-178.
Widnall – Eliminate transfer of existing FNMA authorizations to the special assistance fund. Voice.
Ben F. Jensen (R Iowa) – Prohibit any borrower from using Housing Act funds for speculation. Voice.
Ryan – Require urban renewal relocation payments sufficient to cover moving expenses and other losses of both
families and businesses. Voice.
Mass Transport Request
RELATED DEVELOPMENT – June 19 – The President made his first formal request for specific funds for mass-
transportation programs, asking $75-80 million for planning and demonstrations. The Senate had already voted $150
million for these purposes in S 1922 even without Presidential requests, but no such funds were contained in the
omnibus House bill (HR 6028). Rep. Abraham J. Multer (D N.Y.) June 21 introduced a bill (HR 7787) to carry out the
June 19 request and held a brief hearing on it, but subsequently, at the Administration 's request, the mass-
transportation funds were included in the conference version of S 1922, and HR 7787 was pigeonholed.
Conference
The conference report on S 1922 (H Rept 602) was filed June 27. All six GOP conferees refused to sign. They
were: Reps. Clarence E. Kilburn (R N.Y.), Gordon L. McDonough (R Calif.) and William B. Widnall (R N.J.) and Sens.
Homer E. Capehart (R Ind.), Prescott Bush (R Conn.) and J. Glenn Beall (R Md.).
The conference report made the following compromises in major differences between House and Senate bills:
7/2/09 12:05 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 20 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1372857&type=hitlist&num=0
Accepted the House's 35-year maximum maturity with a 3 percent downpayment requirement under the moderate-
income, single-family sales housing plan and provided the same terms for two, three and four-family units when sold
to families displaced by urban renewal or other governmental action. However, a 40-year maturity, provided in the
Senate bill for all housing under this plan, was permitted in the final version for “hardship” cases.
Accepted the House provision making public agencies eligible as borrowers under the below-the-market-rate
moderate-income rental housing program and limited the program to four years, rather than the House's two years.
Authorized $75 million to assist communities in improving mass-transportation systems. The Senate bill authorized
$150 million for this purpose. The House bill contained no mass-transport provisions.
Liberalized FHA regular home mortgage terms, generally as provided in the House bill, except that the House bill's
maximum mortgage term for new homes was reduced from 40 to 35 years, while leaving the 30-year maximum on
resale housing untouched. The Senate bill did not liberalize this program.
Authorized $5 million for grants for development of new and improved means of providing housing for low-income
families. The Senate voted $10 million, the House nothing.
Authorized $25 million for 3 1/2 percent disaster loans to small businesses forced to vacate by urban-renewal
projects or other governmental action. The House provided for 3 percent loans for urban-renewal displacement only
and authorized no specific amount for the purpose. The Senate had authorized $50 million for 4-1/8 percent loans.
Conferees accepted House amounts for farm housing, college housing, urban renewal, public works planning,
community facilities, farm housing research, defense housing and FNMA. Differences on loan funds for the elderly
and on open spaces and urban planning grants were split exactly down the middle at $75 million, $50 million and
$55 million, respectively. (See box on funds authorized, page 185.) The Senate's veterans' housing provisions were
dropped, since they were being handled in another bill.
Report Accepted
Congress June 28 approved the conference report on S 1922 after Senate supporters of the final bill narrowly
defeated, by a 42-47 roll-call vote, a motion to send it back to conference. The motion, offered by Sen. Prescott
Bush (R Conn.), would have instructed Senate conferees to insist on trimming $1.6 billion from the bill's much-
disputed cost in order to bring the final figure, according to Bush, into line with the Administration 's request for
$4,247,000,000 in new authorization authority. Twelve Democrats joined 30 Republicans in voting for recommittal,
while only two Republicans voted against it.
On the final votes to accept the conference report, the Senate approved the bill by a 53-38 roll-call vote, and the
House later June 28 by a 229-176 roll-call vote. (For voting, see charts p. 586, 532)
The cost estimate of the bill varied from the $4,886,000,000 figure suggested by backers to the $8,999,000,000
offered by opponents, the difference largely depending on whether transfers of $760 million in existing FNMA funds
and projected 40-year contributions of over $3 billion for public housing were included. In the end the 
Administration  got almost everything it asked for and, in some cases, considerably more.
In Senate debate on the conference report, John Sherman Cooper (R Ky.), supported by Jacob K. Javits (R N.Y.), said
that in view of the “critical” international situation the President May 25 had asked Congress to restrain its spending,
yet in the housing bill Democrats added unnecessary funds to Administration  requests.
John J. Sparkman (D Ala.) said the bill carried $4 million less than the $4,890,000,000 asked by the President.
In the House, Rep. Albert Rains (D Ala.) said the bill “will promptly lift homebuilding out of the doldrums.” But Edgar
W. Hiestand (R Calif.) said, “From two incredibly bad housing bills the House and Senate conferees have produced a
substitute embodying most of the worst features of both bills.”
In signing the bill June 30, President Kennedy said it provided “an opportunity for a giant step toward better cities
and improved housing.” Besides meeting the problems of “disappearing open land” and “inadequate public
transportation” in and around urban centers, the President said the bill recognized “the forgotten families – those
who are ineligible for public housing on the one hand and those whose incomes will not allow them to pay for
decent housing on the other.” He said the bill provided “expanded opportunities for private industry to meet the
housing needs of families of moderate income.”
Features
Major 1961 Legislation in Education and Welfare
Aid to Public Schools, Colleges, NDEA Page 210
Educational Television Page 208
Aid to Dependent Children Page 280
Juvenile-Delinquency Control Page 204
Youth Training Page 283
Social Security Amendments Page 257
7/2/09 12:05 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 21 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1372857&type=hitlist&num=0
Unemployment Compensation Page 270
Area Redevelopment Page 247
Welfare, Pension Plans Page 285
Veterans Compensation Page 288
Housing Act of 1961 Page 184
Community Health Facilities Page 201
Medical Insurance for the Aged Page 262
Drug Regulation Page 290
Water Pollution Control Page 267
Air Pollution Control Page 266
Funds Authorized in Housing Act of 1961
There was considerable dispute as to how much federal spending was actually authorized by the Housing Act of
1961, but the controversy was largely semantic, turning on a distinction between authorizations that were completely
new and those that revived or continued unused existing authorizations which otherwise would not have remained
available.
Democratic sponsors of the Act said new authorizations amounted to $4,886,000,000, and generally referred to that
figure as the amount covered in the Act. Critics said the final figure was $8,999,000,000. The discrepancy involved
three items counted by critics but not by sponsors:
1. Farm housing. Under the 1949 and 1956 housing acts, $1,000,000,000 in loans was authorized for farm housing, for
use through June 30, 1961. Of that, $207 million was still not used by 1961, but authority to use it would have expired
June 30 unless farm housing provisions were extended. The Housing Act of 1961 extended authority to use the $207
million and in addition authorized another $200 million ($407 million in all). Sponsors of the bill counted as new
authorizations only the new $200 million. Critics added in the other $207 million also.
2. FNMA funds. The Housing Act of 1961 authorized $750 million in new investments by FNMA, and in addition, permitted
FNMA to spend $760 million in existing set-asides and reserves, which otherwise could not have been used for
mortgage investments. Sponsors did not count this as a new authorization, critics did.
3. Public housing. Under the 1949 Housing Act, $336 million in annual federal contributions for public housing was
authorized, but the full amount had never been spent because Congress did not authorize enough public housing units
to use up the entire $336 million. The 1961 Act authorized as many new public housing units to be constructed as were
needed to use up the full $336 million each year. It was estimated that this would mean construction of an additional
100,000 public housing units. Since only about $257 million of the $336 million was currently being used, the increase
to $336 million would raise public housing costs by about $79 million a year for 40 years, or $3,146,000,000 over the
40-year period. Critics of the bill counted this as a new authorization, sponsors as simply a reauthorization.
Shown below are authorizations recommended by the Administration  (based on its final requests to the House-
Senate conference committee on the bill), and the amounts provided by the Senate, House and final versions of the
Act. The figures do not represent annual spending authorizations, but total new spending authorized by the Act over
many years (40 years for public housing, 4 years for college housing, 3 1/2 years for urban renewal, for example).
The figures are arranged to reflect the dispute over how much constituted new authorizations and how much revivals
of dormant authorizations. For this reason, new authorizations for farm housing and FNMA are given in one place
and reauthorizations and transfers in another. Although there was considerable debate on what portion of the funds
authorized in the bill were truly “new funds,” there was no question that, over-all, the bill made available
$8,999,000,000 in housing authorizations that otherwise could not have been used. Net budget expenditures in
fiscal 1962, as a result of the new authorizations, were estimated at $248.2 million.
The funds given in brackets for mass transportation loans and grants were not separate authorizations but were to
come out of the $500 million for community facilities and $2 billion for urban renewal.
New Funds Authorized, Millions of Dollars
Program Admin. Request Senate Bill House Bill Final
FNMA Investments and Loans
President's Discretion $ 750 [1] $ 750 $ 750 $ 750
Defense Housing – – 25 –
Loan Programs
College Housing 1,350 [2] 1,350 1,200 1,200
Community Facilities Loans 50 150 500 500
(Mass Transport) Loans 50 (100) – (50)
Housing for Elderly Loans 50 50 100 75
SBA Disaster Loans – 50 – [3] 25
Public Works Planning Loans – – 10 10
Farm Housing Loans – – 200 200
7/2/09 12:05 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 22 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1372857&type=hitlist&num=0
Grant Programs
Urban Renewal 2,500 [2] 2,500 2,000 2,000
(Mass transport) (25) (50) – (25)
Urban Planning Aid 80 80 30 55
Public Housing Demonstrations 10 10 – 5
Open Spaces 50 [4] – 100 50
Farm Housing Research – – 1 1
Defense Hospitals – – 15 15
TOTAL NEW FUNDS $4,890 $4,940 $4,931 $4,886
Reauthorizations and Transfers,  Millions of Dollars
Farm Housing $ 207 $ 207 $ 207 $ 207
FNMA – – 760 760
Total,  New Plus Reauthorizations and Transfers $5,097 $5,147 [5] $5,898 $5,853
Estimated 40-Year Cost of Public Housing, Millions of Dollars
Public Housing $3,146 $3,146 $3,146 $3,146
Total $8,243 $8,243 $9,044 $8,999
[1] Originally $500 million, later raised to $750 million.
[2] For college housing, the President asked and the Senate voted $1,350,000,000, intended to cover program costs over five
years. The House and final figure of $1.2 billion was meant to cover four years only. For urban renewal, the President asked
$2.5 billion intended to cover four years' needs; the $2 billion finally granted was intended to provide for about 3 1/2 years'
needs. Sen. Bush (R Conn.), in offering his conference report recommittal motion, adjusted Administration  requests for
these two items on the basis of the shorter coverage periods, using a figure of $2 billion as the urban renewal request and $1
billion as the college housing request, thus cutting $850 million from the $5,097,000,000 figure shown above as the 
Administration  request and yielding Bush's dollar figure of $4,247,000,000.
[3] House bill authorized such loans out of existing SBA funds, without increasing them.
[4] Originally $100 million. Administration  informed conferees $50 million was acceptable.
[5] Senate bill also authorized $1.2 billion requested by Administration  for veterans' housing loans, (making a total of
$6,347,000,000 without public housing), but this was dropped in conference because it was included in a seperate bill. (See p.
201).
Description of Major Federal Housing Agencies
The Housing and Home Finance Agency was created July 27, 1947, under Reorganization Plan No. 3, and is
responsible for the principal housing, home finance and community development functions of the Federal
Government. The Agency consists of an Office of the Administrator and five operating units or agencies – Federal
Housing Administration , Public Housing Administration , Federal National Mortgage Assn., Community
Facilities Administration  and the Urban Renewal Administration . They carry on the following major
functions:
Office of the HHFA Administrator – Besides supervising and coordinating the constituent parts of the Agency, the
Administrator must approve community programs for the prevention and elimination of slums and blight conditions in
order to establish a community's eligibility for federal urban renewal assistance, dispose of certain federally owned
housing properties and supervise certain disaster and relief activities relating to housing.
Federal Housing Administration  – The FHA was created by the National Housing Act of 1934 in order to encourage
the improvement of housing standards, to provide a system of mortgage insurance and help stabilize the mortgage
market. It insures approved private lenders against loss on mortgage loans made for property improvement, cooperative
housing projects, one- to four-family sales housing units, rental projects, armed services housing, and the construction
or rehabilitation of housing in urban renewal areas.
Public Housing Administration  – PHA was created July 27, 1947 to administer the low-rent public housing program
authorized by the 1937 Housing Act.
Federal National Mortgage Assn. – FNMA was originally chartered on Feb. 10, 1938 and is authorized to conduct
secondary market operations by buying Government-insured or guaranteed mortgages where and when investment
funds are in short supply and by selling such mortgages where and when investment capital is readily available. FNMA
also has special assistance functions to support selected types of home mortgages pending establishment of their
marketability and in order to prevent a decline in mortgage-lending and home-building activities.
Community Facilities Administration  – The CFA was established Dec. 23, 1954 and provides technical and financial
assistance to public bodies and to nonprofit organizations in planning, financing and constructing community facilities,
such as college housing; sewer, water and other public works; advance planning for public facilities; housing for the
elderly; and certain school construction.
Urban Renewal Administration  – The URA was established Dec. 23, 1954 and administers the federal program of
slum clearance and urban renewal, the urban planning assistance program and the program for developing improved
techniques for preventing and eliminating urban blight.
7/2/09 12:05 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 23 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal61-1372857&type=hitlist&num=0
Other Programs – Other federal activities in housing include: the Veterans Administration 's loan guarantee and
direct loan programs, the farm housing program of the Farmers Home Administration of the Department of
Agriculture, and the activities of the Federal Savings and Loan System, the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp.
and the Federal Home Loan Bank System.
Document Citation
"Administration Wins Victory on Housing Bill." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal61-1372857.
Originally published in CQ Almanac 1961 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1961).
http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal61-1372857 (accessed July 2, 2009).
Document ID: cqal61-1372857
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal61-1372857
© 1961, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
