8/10/09 1:51 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 14http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal64-1304358&type=hitlist&num=3
Urban Development
1992 Urban Aid Measures Fail Despite
Riots'  Impetus
1992 Cities Seek Help From Congress
1978 Presidential Statement: Carter
Proposal for Urban Policy
1978 Countercyclical Aid Dies; Key
Urban Program
1977 $12.5-Billion Urban Aid
Authorization Voted
1976 Aid to New York
1975 Congress Approves Loans for New
York City
1972 Rules Committee Kills Housing-
Urban Development Act
1971 Urban Development Programs
1971 Community Development:
Senate, House Hold Hearings
1969 Housing, Urban Development
1969 Congress Studies Urban
Proposals, Extends Hud Act
1968 Message to Congress: Johnson on
Cities
1967 Model Cities, Rent Supplement
Funds Cut Deeply
1967 Kennedy (N.Y.) Housing Bills
1967 54 Democratic, 9 GOP Districts
Get Model City Funds
1966 Problems of The Cities
Highlighted
1966 Housing, Demonstration Cities
Bill Enacted
1964 Housing Act Expands Existing
Programs
1961 Administration Wins Victory on
Housing Bill
Bankruptcy
S 3049 –Reported by Senate Banking
and Currency Committee ( S  Rept
1265) July 29, 1964.
Passed by the Senate by voice vote
July 31. (For roll-call vote on an
amendment, see p. 708)
HR 12175–Reported by House Banking
and Currency Committee (H Rept 1703)
Aug. 5.
S 3049 –Passed, amended, by the
Housing Act Expands Existing Programs
An article from CQ Almanac 1964
Document Outline
Provisions
Background
House Hearings
Senate
House
Conferences
Features
Congress in an omnibus bill, the Housing Act of 1964, enacted a substantial
portion of President Johnson's  housing and urban renewal requests. But it
took no action on two far-reaching new proposals–“new towns” and “scattered
housing.” (See Housing Message, p. 277) As enacted, S 3049  contained
many amendments to the housing laws and authorized $1,130,750,000 to
fund, through Sept. 30, 1965, both new and old programs, including urban
renewal and public housing. (See table p. 284) It was expected that Congress
would consider a new omnibus housing bill in 1965 when there would be time
to study more thoroughly some of the Administration' s  proposals.
The Act was called a “bare-bones” bill, but this was more because of its one-
year limit than its lack of meat. The final version, approved with little
opposition, was an amalgam rather than a compromise of the Senate and
House bills. It contained not only most of the President' s  proposals but
also new programs initiated by Congress. Four new programs were
authorized: an Administration-proposed training program for local urban
renewal administrators, a Senate provision providing federal fellowships for
graduate training in city planning, an Administration-proposed grant program
for construction of low-cost rental housing for domestic farm workers, and a
House GOP proposal of low-interest loans to rehabilitate property in urban
renewal areas and thereby avoid demolition and reconstruction.
Other amendments expanded the scope of existing programs and broadened
them to include additional groups. Several programs, for example, previously
limited to couples or families, were expanded to include individuals. Programs
for the elderly were extended to handicapped persons of any age. One major
amendment, requested by the Administration, enlarged the powers of the
Federal National Mortgage Assn. (FNMA), which buys Government-insured
mortgages from private banks when investment funds are in short supply. The
amendment authorized FNMA to pool its mortgages and sell interests in the
pool to private investors, thereby obtaining private capital to carry out certain functions without specific
Congressional appropriations.
The bill focused attention on two aspects of urban renewal and low-
rent public housing which had been controversial in recent years:
relocation of displacees and rehabilitation of existing housing.
Opponents of urban renewal, mainly Republicans, had objected
that urban development authorities too often razed a whole slum
area while existing housing that was still usable could have been
rehabilitated. The Housing Act contained GOP amendments
providing loans for rehabilitation in urban renewal areas and
permitting use of urban renewal funds to enforce local housing
codes to keep housing in good repair.
Urban redevelopment critics had also charged that in spite of
federal directives to help relocate displacees from condemned
areas, frequently no decent low-rent housing had been found. The
1964 GOP platform said the Administration had “created new slums
 
8/10/09 1:51 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 14http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal64-1304358&type=hitlist&num=3
S 3049 –Passed, amended, by the
House by voice vote Aug. 13 after HR
12175 was passed by a 308-68 roll-call
vote. (See p. 650)
Conference report (H Rept 1828)
agreed to by a 310-70 roll-call vote of
the House and by voice vote of the
Senate Aug. 19. (See p. 654)
PL 88-560–Signed into law Sept. 2.
1964 GOP platform said the Administration had “created new slums
by forcing the poor from their homes to make room for luxury
apartments, while neglecting the vital need for adequate relocation
assistance.” The Administration requested and the final bill included
additional urban renewal relocation payments to displaced families,
individuals and small businesses, and, for the first time, displacees
from sites needed for public housing projects were included in the
assistance programs. The bill also contained an Administration
request providing rent subsidies of up to $120 a year per public
housing unit for displacees who could not pay the regular rent.
Provisions
As signed into law, S 3049 , the Housing Act of 1964,
contained the following provisions:
Title I. Federal Housing Administration (FHA) Mortgage Insurance Programs. Raised the dollar limit on the amount
of a home mortgage which can be insured by the FHA from $25,000 to $30,000 in the case of a one-family home,
from $27,500 to $32,500 in the case of a two- or three-family home, and from $35,000 to $37,500 in the case of a
four-family home.
Raised from $9,000 to $11,000 the dollar limit on the amount of a mortgage which can be insured by the FHA on
low-cost housing in non-urban areas.
Broadened the criteria under which the FHA insured home improvement loans for homes outside of urban renewal
areas, so as to include property which is an “acceptable risk.” (Previous law required the property to be
“economically sound.”)
Provided relief to home mortgagors whose payments on FHA-insured loans are in default due to circumstances
beyond their control (by permitting lenders to extend the periods over which mortgagors could repay loans), and
provided additional protection against foreclosure for FHA-insured home owners.
Eliminated a provision limiting FHA-insured rental housing mortgages to the cost of the physical improvements. (The
effect was to include the value of the land.)
Amended FHA multi-family rental housing programs by eliminating the per room dollar limit on the maximum amount
of an insured mortgage and substituting a limit based on the number of family units in a project.
Eliminated mandatory acquisition of a multi-family housing project by FHA within one year of default on the
mortgage.
Expanded the purposes for which cooperative housing project loans, insured by the FHA, could be made.
Expanded the FHA-insured home improvement loan program to include loans to pay municipal charges against a
property, such as for sewer or water facilities.
Permitted approved private development and building organizations to obtain FHA-insured mortgages under the
rental program for low- and middle-income families, and extended the program three months, through Sept. 30,
1965.
Made private nonprofit nursing homes eligible for FHA-insured mortgages. (Under existing law, only profit-making
nursing homes were eligible for construction financing.)
Amended the program of FHA-insured mortgages for condominium housing—apartments in a multi-family dwelling
that are individually owned and have individual mortgages—by raising the dollar limit on the amount of mortgages
that could be insured, extending the term of such a mortgage, and authorizing insurance of blanket mortgages to
finance construction of projects to be sold as condominiums.
Permitted a nonprofit educational institution to pay up an FHA-insured mortgage prior to its maturity without paying
an adjusted premium charge.
Authorized the FHA to aid homeowners who found structural defects in houses purchased with FHA-insured loans.
Effective only on new homes with mortgages insured after Sept. 2, 1964.
Title II. Housing for the Elderly and Handicapped.
Made individual elderly persons eligible for FHA-financed low- and moderate-income housing.
Extended special programs for the elderly to the handicapped, and increased the fund for direct loans on housing
for the elderly or handicapped from $275 million to $350 million.
Title III. Urban Renewal. Provided that, three years after enactment of the law, no locality would be certified to
receive federal urban renewal or public housing assistance unless it had had a minimum standards housing code in
effect for at least six months and was enforcing it.
8/10/09 1:51 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 14http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal64-1304358&type=hitlist&num=3
Permitted use of urban renewal funds to enforce housing codes in urban renewal areas, with the stipulation that the
locality agree to increase its code enforcement expenditures by an amount at least equal to the required local
contribution to the federal activities.
Required local agencies to assure adequate housing for individuals as well as families displaced by urban renewal
projects.
Required the Administrators of the Housing and Home Finance Agency and the Small Business Administration to
provide relocation assistance and information to persons and businesses displaced by each urban renewal or public
housing project, and permitted urban renewal and public housing funds to be used for this purpose.
Made individuals as well as families eligible for rental or cooperative moderate-income housing built on property in
an urban renewal area.
Required that no demolition project be started unless the HHFA Administrator determined that the same objectives
could not be achieved by rehabilitation.
Authorized urban renewal projects for “air-rights developments” to provide elevated sites for low- or moderate-
income housing. Air rights projects would be undertaken in an area which is not itself a slum but consists primarily
of land in highways, railways or similar facilities which have a blighting influence. Projects would include construction
of foundations and platforms over such facilities as well as acquisition of development rights.
Stipulated that no more than 5 percent of the total urban renewal capital grants authorized by the Act be used for
development of air-rights sites. (For urban renewal funds authorized, see p. 284)
Increased relocation benefits to persons and small businesses displaced from urban renewal areas and public
housing sites as follows: to businesses with annual earnings of less than $10,000, the sum of $1,500 (in addition to
existing payments of up to $3,000 for moving expenses and direct losses of property); and to individuals 62 or over
and low-income families (in addition to the existing payments of up to $200 for moving expenses and direct losses
of property) up to $500 for rental “adjustment” payments. The payments were not to exceed the difference between
a year' s  rent for suitable housing and 20 percent of the family' s  gross annual income.
Provided that relocation payments be made only to persons displaced after Jan. 27, 1964, who were unable to find
a home in a low-rent housing project, or to businesses displaced after the same date.
Authorized a new program of 20-year, low-interest (3 percent) loans to property owners or long-term tenants in
urban renewal areas to finance the rehabilitation required to make the property conform to the housing code or carry
out the objectives of the urban renewal plan. The purpose of the new program was to reduce the need for
demolition and removal of structures which could be rehabilitated. A revolving loan fund of $50 million was
authorized.
Authorized urban planning aid to areas where employment opportunities were reduced because of withdrawal of a
federal installation or decline in federal orders or activities.
Authorized urban planning aid to any depressed area, without regard to population, which qualified for assistance
under the area redevelopment program and authorized three-fourths instead of two-thirds federal share for planning
in such an area.
Authorized urban planning aid for Indian reservations.
Authorized urban planning aid to counties with over 50,000 population and limited the funds for the program to 15
percent of the total appropriation for the urban planning program. Under existing law, only counties with less than
50,000 population were eligible except under certain circumstances.
Authorized urban planning grants to El Paso, Texas, to help solve problems resulting from the Chamizal Treaty of
1963 between the U. S . and Mexico.
Title IV. Public Housing. Made single low-income displacees eligible for low-rent public housing.
Authorized a special subsidy of up to $120 per year to a housing unit occupied by elderly or displaced families or
individuals who could not pay the regular rental charged to other low-income families.
Stipulated that no public housing project should be undertaken unless decent and sanitary housing was available or
provided for the displaced families at prices within their financial means; and provided relocation payments for public
housing displacees identical to those for urban renewal displacees.
Authorized new public housing funds. (See p. 284)
Title V. Rural Housing. Extended rural housing programs due to expire June 30, 1965, through Sept. 30, 1965.
Increased the direct housing loan fund by $150 million.
Increased the maximum insurable mortgage under the rural rental housing program for the elderly from $100,000 to
$300,000.
8/10/09 1:51 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 14http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal64-1304358&type=hitlist&num=3
Authorized a new grant program to pay up to two-thirds of the development cost of low-rent housing for domestic
farm laborers. Applicants were required not to charge rentals exceeding amounts approved by the Secretary of
Agriculture and to maintain the housing in good condition. Up to $10 million was authorized through Sept. 30, 1965.
Title VI. Community Facilities. Made minor amendments reducing certain restrictions on recipients of public facility
loans.
Authorized an additional $20 million in advances for public works planning.
Title VII. Federal National Mortgage Assn. (FNMA). Authorized FNMA to pool its first mortgages and sell
participations or interests in the pool to private investors. The purpose of the provision was to enable FNMA to
obtain cash to carry out certain functions, including the purchase of special mortgages on selected types of
structures, such as nursing homes. Under previous law, FNMA had to acquire these funds from the Treasury by
Congressional authority. Mortgages held by the Veterans Administration could be included in the pool.
Eliminated the statutory limit of $20,000 per family residence on mortgages purchased by FNMA in its secondary
market operations.
Increased the maximum amount of any short-term loan made by FNMA from 80 to 90 percent of the unpaid
principal of the mortgage.
Title VIII. Training and Fellowship Programs. Established a new system of federal-state training and research
programs to develop skills in community development. The purpose of the program was to encourage states, in
cooperation with universities and urban centers, to develop training programs for technical and professional persons
who would become administrators in local community development programs, and to support research in community
development.
Authorized 50–50 matching grants to the states after a state plan was approved by the Administrator.
Limited grants to any state to 10 percent of the total authorization of $10 million.
Authorized the Administrator to provide technical assistance to the states and local public agencies to carry out the
purposes of the title.
Authorized a new three-year program to provide fellowships in colleges and universities for the graduate training of
professional city planning and urban and housing specialists, with a $500,000 annual authorization.
Title IX. Savings and Loan Assns. Broadened the investment and lending authority of federally chartered savings
and loan associations by amending existing legislation to:
Extend the basic lending area of an association to 100 miles, rather than 50 miles, from its home office.
Raise from $35,000 to $40,000 the maximum loan on a single-family home.
Remove the limitation on the aggregate amount loaned outside the basic lending area.
Allow investment of up to 5 percent of an association' s  assets in property in urban renewal areas.
Permit loans secured by a leasehold if the term of the leasehold does not expire for at least 15 years after the maturity of
the loan.
Permit an association to invest 1 percent of its assets in a savings and loan corporation located in the state of the
association' s  home office.
Permit a federal home loan bank to accept nonfederally insured home mortgages with maturities of up to 30 years and
amounts up to $40,000 (instead of 25 years and $35,000) as collateral for loans to its members.
Permit an association to invest in obligations of state, county or municipal governments. (They were already permitted to
invest in obligations of the Federal Government.)
Permit an association to invest up to 20 percent (rather than 15 percent) of its assets in federally insured or private
loans for property or home improvement. The limit on loans not federally insured was raised from $3,500 to $5,000.
Permit public funds of the U. S . to be invested in federally insured accounts.
Authorize such associations to make loans to college students, provided that the total amount of these loans is not more
than 5 percent of their assets.
Title X. Miscellaneous. Made minor amendments to settle specific problems in certain geographical areas of the
country.
Permitted national banks to make home loans equal to 80 percent (rather than 75 percent) of the appraised value of
8/10/09 1:51 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 14http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal64-1304358&type=hitlist&num=3
Permitted national banks to make home loans equal to 80 percent (rather than 75 percent) of the appraised value of
the real estate, with maturities of 25 (rather than 20) years.
Funds. Authorized a total of $1,100,500,000, excluding new public housing units, to maintain existing programs and
four new programs through Sept. 30, 1965, as follows: $725 million for urban renewal capital grants of which $5
million was to be used for urban renewal demonstration programs; $50 million for a new program of 20-year low-
interest (3 percent) loans to property owners in urban renewal areas to help finance rehabilitation; $30 million for
urban planning grants; $5 million in grants for public housing demonstration projects; $20 million for public works
planning advances; $150 million for rural housing direct loans, administered by the Farmers Home Administration;
$25 million for the urban “open space” program grants; $75 million for the direct loan program for housing of the
elderly; $10 million for a new 50–50 matching grant program under Title VI to train local community development
administrators; $10 million for a new construction program of low-cost rental housing for domestic farm workers; and
$500,000 for a new program of fellowships for graduate students in city planning. The bill also authorized $500,000
for the fellowship program in each of the next two fiscal years (not included in the total above).
In addition, S 3049  authorized $30,250,000 to contract for servicing of 37,500 additional public housing units.
Since the Federal Government would maintain these units at approximately this annual cost for the next 40 years,
the bill in effect authorized new funds of $1,210,000,000 for this program.
Background
The Federal Government' s  major housing programs were established in the landmark housing bills of 1934,
1937, 1949 and 1961. For the history and evolution of federal housing policy and programs, see 1961 Almanac p.
188.
By early 1964 the existing authorization for public housing contracts was exhausted and the various authorizations
for urban renewal and open-space land grants and for housing for elderly persons were expected to be used up
during the year.
Housing Message
President Johnson on Jan. 27, 1964, sent to Congress an omnibus housing and community development message
designed to expand and amend several existing programs and to authorize new measures to achieve the “goal of a
decent home in a decent neighborhood for every family.” The message said the program was an important aspect
of the planned war on poverty. (For text, see p. 877)
New programs in the fields of urban renewal, public housing and community development highlighted the message.
The President said, “Our nation stands today at the threshold of the greatest period of growth in its history…. Above
all, we will need more land, new housing and orderly community development. For most of this population growth
will be concentrated in the fringe areas around existing metropolitan communities.”
The message also indicated an extension of several policies formed in the Kennedy Administration: developing into
“meaningful practice” President Kennedy' s  executive order to assure opportunities for equal access to federally
assisted housing; support for early enactment of the Administration' s  mass transit bill (see story p. 556); and
establishment of a Cabinet-level Department of Housing and Community Development, which was proposed under a
different name–Department of Urban Affairs and Housing–by President Kennedy but blocked by Congress in 1962.
(1962 Almanac p. 380)
Following are the major provisions and the outcome of the new requests contained in President Johnson' s
housing message (requests to extend existing authority are not included). Most of the major amendments were
enacted, but the two most controversial proposals–“new towns” and “scattered housing”–received no action:
Public Housing. Authorize 60,000 additional public housing units for low-income families in each of the fiscal years
1965-1968 (public housing is constructed by local housing authorities and subsidized by federal funds). Authorize a
new financing formula so as to permit local housing authorities to purchase up to 15,000 private housing units
(within the total 60,000 per year) and renovate them for public housing. Authorize local authorities to lease up to
10,000 existing private housing units a year and renovate them for public housing. (The two latter proposals, called
“scattered housing” because authorities were permitted to acquire single-family homes, were tried on an
experimental basis in Washington, D.C., during 1962-63.) The President' s  plan was to subsidize construction of
35,000 new units annually for four years.
The final bill authorized construction of 37,500 new units–in effect, a one-year program. The “scattered housing”
requests received no action in either chamber.
Other Housing. Make single elderly persons eligible for federally insured low-interest loans, currently available only
to elderly couples or families. The request was enacted in S 3049 .
Authorize a new insured rural housing loan program to replace the existing direct loan program. This was not done;
instead, funds for direct loans were increased.
Authorize a new grant program to provide low-rent housing for domestic farm laborers. The request was enacted in 
S 3049 .
8/10/09 1:51 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 14http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal64-1304358&type=hitlist&num=3
Authorize funds for 12,500 additional units of military family housing. The military construction bill (HR 11369)
authorized 8,250 new units. (See story p. 162)
Authorize the FHA and Veterans Administration to finance the correction of substantial defects in homes built with
FHA- and VA-insured loans. S 3049  carried this out for FHA-insured loans only.
Ease FHA foreclosure procedures against homeowners who default on mortgages due to circumstances beyond
their control. The request was enacted in S 3049 .
Federal National Mortgage Assn. (FNMA). Enable FNMA to obtain cash to carry out certain functions without
specific Congressional appropriation by authorizing FNMA to pool its mortgages and sell participations or interests to
private investors. The request, originally a separate bill (HR 9769, S  2469), was enacted in S 3049 .
Urban Renewal. Authorize an annual rent subsidy of $120 per public housing unit to enable local authorities to
provide housing for extremely low-income displacees from urban renewal projects. Enacted in S 3049 .
Authorize two-year supplemental relocation payments (in addition to existing payments) for low- and moderate-
income families displaced by urban renewal. Additional relocation payments of up to $500 for a year' s  rent
were provided by S 3049 .
Make single low-income displacees eligible for public housing. S 3049  included this request.
Authorize a supplemental relocation payment for displaced small businesses of up to $2,500. The final bill provided
$1,500 in addition to existing payments.
Authorize a new program of federally insured low-interest loans, with deferred repayment of the principal, to elderly
homeowners for rehabilitation in urban renewal programs. The Administration request received no action, but a
broader Republican proposal providing direct loans to all property owners or long-term tenants in an urban renewal
area for rehabilitation of homes and small businesses was included in S 3049 .
Community Development. Authorize four new programs to create new towns in largely undeveloped areas and
provide long-range planning and public facilities for existing cities which are redeveloping and expanding: (1) expand
FHA mortgage insurance, currently limited to housing and nursing homes, to assist in financing the cost of land
development for residential use in new subdivisions of existing communities and for developing plans and sites for
entirely new towns; (2) expand the public facility loan program of the Community Facilities Administration (CFA) so
as to provide grants and loans to states and local governments for the planning and provision of public facilities in
new towns, and loan insurance for private developers constructing such facilities; (3) authorize long-term public
facility loans with deferred repayments to enable communities to build ahead of growth; and (4) authorize CFA public
facility loans to communities to finance acquisition of land for future construction of public works and facilities. None
of the above proposals was enacted; the provision for advance acquisition of land for public facilities passed the
Senate.
Training. Authorize a program of $60 million over a four-year period in grants to the states for the establishment of
urban affairs research and public service programs in universities to train local housing and urban renewal
administrators. S 3049  authorized $10 million to begin this program.
Related Requests. Authorize a mass transportation program. The request was enacted. (See story p. 556)
Establish a Department of Housing and Community Development. No action was taken on the separate bill (HR
9983, S  2475).
Funds. The President recommended necessary funds to continue existing programs and asked for specific
appropriations for the following programs: $1.4 billion for urban renewal over a two-year period; $5 million for the
public housing demonstration program for one year; additional funds for the loan program for the elderly to permit
loans of $100 million in fiscal 1965; $75 million for the new domestic farm labor housing program over a four-year
period; and a total of $60 million for four years for training and research in urban affairs. For authorized funds, see
final provisions, p. 274.
The Administration requests ( S  2468, the omnibus bill, and S  2469, the FNMA amendments) were
introduced Jan. 27 by Senate Banking and Currency Housing Subcommittee Chairman John J. Sparkman (D Ala.).
Companion bills (HR 9751, HR 9769) were introduced Jan. 28 by Sparkman' s  counterpart in the House, Albert
Rains (D Ala.). A third Administration bill ( S  2475, HR 9983), establishing a Cabinet-level housing department,
was introduced by Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey (D Minn.) Jan. 29 and by Rep. Henry S . Reuss (D Wis.) Feb. 13.
The latter bills were referred to the Senate and House Government Operations Committees where they received no
action.
GOP Proposal
House Republicans, led by Rep. William B. Widnall (R N.J.), ranking minority member of the House Banking and
Currency Housing Subcommittee, Jan. 24 announced that they had an alternative housing program to the
Administration proposal, which they called a “great disappointment.” At a press conference, Widnall said the
Republicans' 10-point program would emphasize rehabilitation rather than construction of dwellings, loans rather
than grants, and was generally designed to “humanize” existing urban renewal and other housing programs. In a
8/10/09 1:51 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 14http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal64-1304358&type=hitlist&num=3
than grants, and was generally designed to “humanize” existing urban renewal and other housing programs. In a
later speech Feb. 5, Widnall charged that the Democrats had given “priority” to “profitable downtown commercial
redevelopment” such as luxury apartments and office space, at the expense of essential slum clearance.
Widnall introduced the Republican bill (HR 9771) Jan. 28. HR 9771 authorized local public housing authorities to
lease existing private housing and rent it to low-income families (similar to part of the Administration' s
“scattered housing” proposal); provided substantially increased compensation for persons whose property had been
condemned under federally aided redevelopment programs; authorized $100 million annually for low-interest loans
for the rehabilitation of homes and businesses (in order to avoid total demolition and reconstruction in an urban
renewal project); provided for increased relocation assistance to families displaced from an urban renewal area
(similar to an Administration request); and required that no further grants be authorized for urban renewal projects in
nonresidential areas unless the local public authority certified that all residential redevelopment had been completed
and that nonresidential redevelopment was necessary for the community.
House Hearings
COMMITTEE–Housing Subcommittee, Banking and Currency.
HELD HEARINGS–Feb. 17–27 on the two Administration bills: HR 9751, the omnibus housing bill, and HR 9769,
the FNMA amendments; and on the omnibus Republican bill, HR 9771.
TESTIMONY–Feb. 17–Robert C. Weaver, administrator of the Housing and Home Finance Agency, said HR 9751
and HR 9769 would “deal with the unfinished business of the present and the impending needs of the future.” He
said HR 9751 was designed to deal with problems of expanding housing demand, long-range community planning,
urban renewal and relocation of families displaced by renewal, and increasing need for low-income housing. In
response to Subcommittee criticism of proposals to extend FHA mortgage insurance to cover loans for acquisition
and development of community subdivisions and for advanced public facility planning, Weaver characterized the
program as the “most significant new departure” in federal housing assistance. He said, “What we have experienced
in urban growth thus far is but a prologue to the years ahead” and that federal aid was essential to assist in
anticipating community growth.
Howard Bertsch, administrator of the Farmers Home Administration, testified in support of the Administration bills.
Feb. 18–Ira S . Robbins, president of the National Assn. of Housing and Redevelopment Officials, said HR 9751
advanced “helpful’ provisions, which would be supported by NAHRO, but that they were “scattered” throughout the
legislation in “an unrelated pattern.” In general, HR 9751, he said, “perpetuates the disorganized pattern” under
which housing programs have evolved in the past 30 years.
RELATED DEVELOPMENTS –Feb. 7–Washington Report, a publication of the Chamber of Commerce of the U. S
., said the Chamber was opposed to the Administration' s  housing program. The report said, “The Chamber'
s  position is that expansion of the already massive housing subsidy program would further centralize Federal
Government power over communities and add to the abuses which have grown up in the public housing and urban
renewal programs.”
Feb. 17–In a speech to the National League of Insured Savings Assns., Senate Banking and Currency Committee
Chairman A. Willis Robertson (D Va.) called the Administration request “the biggest and vaguest and most dangerous
housing bill which has ever been presented to the Congress.” Robertson said HR 9751 involved new obligational
authority “in the magnitude of $9 billion” and was a “serious threat to private enterprise in the housing field.” He said
money was not the sole reason for his objections: “Just as important is the extent to which the bill would extend
federal influence and federal controls.”
Private Groups Differ
TESTIMONY–Feb. 19–Nathaniel S . Keith, president of the National Housing Conference, testified in support of
the Administration' s  legislative proposals, but said they represented “the minimum program necessary to
accomplish” the nation' s  needs. Keith urged the Committee to approve urban renewal capital grant
authorizations of $1 billion a year for five years, instead of the $1.4 billion for two years recommended by the
Administration, and construction of 100,000 housing units a year for five years, instead of 60,000 units a year for
four years as provided by HR 9751.
Lyn E. Davis and William B. Guy, chairman and vice chairman, respectively, of the Realtors' Washington Committee
of the National Assn. of Real Estate Boards, principally opposed extension of urban renewal programs under HR
9751. They backed numerous provisions of the Republican alternative, HR 9771. Both called for the “return of urban
renewal to its basic objective–the upgrading of housing standards” and an end “to the relentless and almost
impatient drive…for the complete involvement of the Federal Government in the problems of community planning
and community life.” Davis said that Administration proposals for mortgage insurance for advanced community
development planning represented “a giant step toward the federalization of the communities of tomorrow” and
could not be justified as the Administration “has produced no evidence” for such needs.
Guy told the Subcommittee that provisions of HR 9751 allowing up to $690 million of the new urban renewal
obligational authority for non-residential renewal should be rejected; that the federal share of residential urban
renewal grants should be reduced from two-thirds to one-half of the net project cost; and that provisions of HR 9771
authorizing the Urban Renewal Administration to terminate projects where communities have failed to commit
8/10/09 1:51 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 14http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal64-1304358&type=hitlist&num=3
authorizing the Urban Renewal Administration to terminate projects where communities have failed to commit
themselves to “workable” programs and providing that specific urban renewal projects be subject to community
referendums should be enacted.
Feb. 20–Harry L. Graham, legislative assistant to the Master of the National Grange, testified in support of
provisions of HR 9751 extending housing loan and grant programs for rural families.
Feb. 24–Boston Mayor John F. Collins, president of the American Municipal Assn., supported HR 9751. In response
to a question from Subcommittee Chairman Albert Rains (D Ala.), Collins said provisions of HR 9771, the Republican
bill, which would switch non-residential urban renewal programs from a grant to a loan basis, would make it
“impossible for cities…to renew their central business districts.” Collins said most cities must rely on real estate
taxes for revenues and that those funds were already committed to various programs.
Urging enactment of provisions of HR 9751 authorizing up to $50 million for mortgage insurance for community
subdivision planning, Harry Held, of the Committee on Mortgage Investments of the National Assn. of Mutual
Savings Banks, said the legislation should be amended to provide safeguards against the “dangers of land price
inflation and speculation.”
Larger Programs Sought
Feb. 26–Boris Shishkin, secretary of the AFL-CIO' s  Housing Committee, said HR 9751 represented “the
minimum necessary” to accomplish the nation' s  housing needs. He urged increasing the Administration
requests for public housing authorizations, urban renewal authorizations and FHA-insured mortgage programs, in
addition to enactment of the Administration' s  community subdivision proposals, to achieve the AFL-CIO' s
estimated need of 2,500,000 new housing units a year during the ensuing decade.
Paget L. Alves Jr., associate director of the National Urban League, supported HR 9751 “in principle” but urged
Congress to “abandon tokenism and…authorize a tremendously expanded public housing, urban renewal, and
middle-income program that could truly initiate an unconditional war on poverty.”
Alfred D. Stalford, assistant to California Gov. Edmund G. Brown (D), testified in support of the Administration' s
proposals, noting California' s  requirement of 5 million new housing units by 1980.
Feb. 27–James F.Steiner, representing the Chamber of Commerce of the U. S ., opposed sections of HR 9751
increasing urban renewal capital grant authorizations and annual contributions for low-income housing. Steiner said
such extensions of federal influence worked against “the principles of individual responsibility…and limited
government.” (For House Committee action, see p. 282)
Senate
COMMITTEE–Housing Subcommittee, Banking and Currency.
HELD HEARINGS–Feb. 19-March 3 on the two Administration bills, S  2468, the omnibus proposal, and S
2469 the FNMA request, and on other proposals. The Subcommittee heard testimony from many of the witnesses
who appeared before the House Subcommittee and from the following witnesses:
TESTIMONY–Feb. 19–Sen. Jack Miller (R Iowa) testified on S  2045, which he co-sponsored with Sen. Wayne
Morse (D Ore.). Miller said the bill, which prohibited federal assistance for the acquisition, disposition or demolition
of any structure other than a “substandard building,” was designed to protect property owners by putting the
“burden” on the Government to prove that a building, demolished to make way for an urban renewal project, was
substandard and uninhabitable.
Feb. 20–New York City Mayor Robert F. Wagner (D) said the Administration' s  housing program was an
“absolute must.” Wagner said, however, that “we do not feel the quantity set forth in the…bill is nearly enough.”
Wagner called on the Committee to increase capital grant authorizations for urban renewal, to increase
authorizations for additional public housing units and to eliminate provisions of existing law limiting any one state to
15 percent of total federal funds available in a given year.
Milwaukee, Wis., Mayor Henry W. Maier (D), vice president of the American Municipal Assn., and J. Roy Carroll Jr.,
president of the American Institute of Architects, supported S  2468.
Feb. 24–Generally supporting S  2468 but recommending liberalization of proposed programs were: Monsignor
Raymond J. Gallagher, secretary of the National Conference of Catholic Charities; Fern M. Colborn, representing the
National Federation of Settlements and Neighborhood Centers; Barbara Reach, representing the Community Service
Society of New York; and John H. Haas, executive vice president of the General Improvement Contractors Assn.
George McLain, chairman of the California League of Senior Citizens, favored housing for the elderly programs
embodied in S  2468 but urged the Committee to centralize programs, transferring operations from the
Community Facilities Administration to the Federal Housing Administration. McLain said the elderly “will never get
(desperately needed housing) from the men who now control that agency (CFA).”
Feb. 25–John H. Mulroy, representing the National Assn. of Counties, supported S  2468. He questioned,
however, the “advisability” of increasing from 30 to 35 percent the amount of urban renewal funds authorized for
8/10/09 1:51 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 9 of 14http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal64-1304358&type=hitlist&num=3
however, the “advisability” of increasing from 30 to 35 percent the amount of urban renewal funds authorized for
non-residential renewal.
William Blackfield, president of the National Assn. of Home Builders, while supporting many provisions of the
Administration proposal, opposed the land development mortgage-insurance program for “new towns.” He called it a
“far-reaching proposal” that would put federal credit behind “construction of an entire community.” Blackfield also
said the bill' s  inclusion of the prevailing wage requirements of the Davis-Bacon Act “would substantially
increase the cost of land improvement” and ultimately the cost of homes on the land. He supported, however,
planning grants and public facility loans for new communities.
Feb. 26–Supporting S  2468 were: Nathaniel S . Keith, president of the National Housing Conference;
William E. Murray, representing the National Rural Electric Cooperative Assn.; and Eugene H. Nickerson, chief
executive officer of Nassau County, N.Y.
Carey Winston, president of the Mortgage Bankers Assn. of America, recommended against numerous provisions of 
S  2468 which, he said, “do not either stimulate local initiative or private enterprise.”
Feb. 27–Ehney A. Camp Jr., representing the American Life Convention and the Life Insurance Assn. of America,
told the Subcommittee that “special purpose loans” to aid “low-income families, the elderly, to stimulate cooperative
housing and to facilitate urban renewal (are) understandable from a social viewpoint but they depart from the basic
objective” of the Federal Housing Administration. Camp said that “clearly an element of subsidy is involved in such
programs” and “we have serious reservations about the desirability of these subsidies.”
March 3–Housing and Home Finance Agency (HHFA) officials returned for a final day of questioning by
Subcommittee members. Responding to a suggestion by Sen. Joseph S . Clark (D Pa.) that $3 billion be
authorized for urban renewal instead of the Administration requested $1.4 billion, Urban Renewal Administrator
William L. Slayton said the agency staff would “have to be pushed pretty hard to get out $1 billion” a year.
With respect to S  2469, Sen. Paul H. Douglas (D III.) told J. Stanley Baughman, president of the Federal
National Mortgage Assn. (FNMA), that opening participations in FHA- and Veterans Administration-insured
mortgages to the public “was a bit of bookkeeping legerdemain” designed to hold down the Administration' s
fiscal 1965 budget.
Bill Approved
The Senate Housing Subcommittee July 2 approved a revised version of the Administration' s  housing bill. It
authorized funds for a 15-month period (through Sept. 30, 1965) instead of the four-year period the President had
proposed for several programs. The FHA' s  general mortgage insurance authority was due to expire Oct. 1,
1965, and the Subcommittee, by providing funds until that date, wanted to ensure further consideration of all major
housing programs in 1965.
The full Committee July 29 reported a clean bill ( S 3049 – S  Rept 1265) following the recommendations of
the Subcommittee and authorizing $1,201,500,000 for the 15-month period.
S 3049  included many of the Administration' s  minor amendments to broaden existing programs and
several of the major new amendments, including increased relocation payments for displacees, rent subsidies, funds
for advance acquisition of land for public facilities, and the new authority for FNMA to pool and sell mortgages. But it
did not provide requested provisions to aid “new towns” or state training and research programs, nor did it authorize
purchase and leasing of existing private units for public housing.
S 3049  authorized two new programs. One, an Administration request, provided $10 million until Oct. 1, 1965,
for construction of low-cost rental housing for domestic farm workers. The second, proposed by Joseph S . Clark
(D Pa.), authorized $1.5 million over a three-year period (fiscal 1965–67) for graduate training fellowships in city
planning. Only $500,000, of the fellowship program, for the first year, is included in the total above.
The bill also authorized contracting of 45,000 new low-rent public housing units involving federal contributions of $36
million annually for 40 years. Thus, although only $36 million for the first year is included in the total figure above,
the cost of servicing the new units authorized by the bill for 40 years would actually be $1,440,000,000.
Majority Views. The Committee explained that the Administration bill contained “very complex and far-reaching
proposals” which the Housing Subcommittee had not had time to consider. The report said that the Subcommittee
had recommended only the extension of programs, either by date or by additional funds, until Oct. 1, 1965, plus
certain minor amendments requested by the Housing Agency and some substantive amendments that the
Subcommittee had “adequately studied.”
Individual Views. In individual views, Committee Chairman A. Willis Robertson (D Va.) opposed authorizations of
$850 million for urban renewal and an estimated $1.4 billion for 45,000 new public housing units because, he said,
“we should be concentrating on economy in government.”
In additional individual views, Republicans Wallace F. Bennett (Utah), John G. Tower (Texas), Milward L. Simpson
(Wyo.) and Peter H. Dominick (Colo.) said that the “bare bones” bill to extend existing programs had acquired a “little
fat” as it passed through the Committee. They opposed the entire public housing program and criticized additional
funds for relocating people displaced from urban renewal areas. They called the latter authorization “another effort to
use money instead of proper administration to solve the problem.” They also opposed the provision authorizing loans
8/10/09 1:51 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 10 of 14http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal64-1304358&type=hitlist&num=3
use money instead of proper administration to solve the problem.” They also opposed the provision authorizing loans
to cities for the advance acquisition of land for future community facilities. They attacked the FNMA pooling
provision as a way for the Administration to “delay bumping its head on the national debt ceiling.”
Funds. The Committee bill authorized a total of $1,165,500,000 (excluding the $36 million initial cost of new public
housing units) to carry forward existing programs and start the two new programs as follows: $850 million for urban
renewal capital grants, of which $5 million was to be used for urban renewal demonstration programs and $84
million was to be used for relocation assistance; $30 million for urban planning; $5 million for public housing
demonstration projects; $20 million for public works planning advances; $150 million for rural housing direct loans,
administered by the Farmers Home Administration; $10 million for a new construction program of low-cost rental
housing for domestic farm workers; $25 million for the urban “open space” program; $75 million for the direct loan
program for housing of the elderly; and $500,000 for a new program of fellowships for graduate students in city
planning. The bill also authorized $500,000 for the fellowship program in each of the next two fiscal years.
Floor Action
The Senate July 31 passed S 3049  by voice vote with amendments and sent it to the House. Housing
Subcommittee Chairman John J. Sparkman (D Ala.) explained that the Subcommittee had not had sufficient time to
study all aspects of the Administration' s  omnibus bill and that it planned to reconsider the rest of the proposals
in 1965 when a new bill would be necessary.
During debate, Sparkman outlined the major innovations in the bill, of which the following were the most important:
(1) relocation payments and rent supplements, amounting to $84 million from urban renewal funds, to help persons
displaced by urban renewal projects to locate and pay for adequate housing; (2) loans to communities to finance
advance acquisition of land for community facilities, so as to prevent the rapid rise of the land price when a
community' s  plans become known; (3) authority for the Federal National Mortgage Assn. to pool and sell
participations in its mortgages and thereby acquire private capital; (4) provisions to insure local enforcement of
minimum standards housing codes; and (5) use of urban renewal funds for “air-rights developments” to provide
elevated sites for low- or moderate-income housing. The first three were requested by the Administration; the last
two were added by the Senate Subcommittee.
Prior to passage, John G. Tower (R Texas) offered an amendment retaining the program extensions but deleting the
major amendments. The Senate rejected the Tower amendment by a 19–64 roll call. (For voting, see chart p. 708)
An amendment by Kenneth B. Keating (R N.Y.), authorizing urban and regional planning grants to areas with reduced
employment opportunities because of a decline in Government activities or orders, was adopted by voice vote.
Keating said the Federal Government should aid those areas where it was directly responsible for dislocation. The
Defense Department subsequently announced an economy move to close defense installations, including upstate
New York bases and the Brooklyn Navy Yard. (See story p. 160)
PROVISIONS–For major provisions, see Committee action above.
Amendments Accepted
July 31–John G. Tower (R Texas)–Establish an advisory board, appointed by the Housing Administrator, to select
candidates for graduate fellowships in urban planning. Voice vote.
Tower–Permit assistance to communities for advance acquisition of land for public facilities only if no other financial
assistance is available. Voice.
Kenneth B. Keating (R N.Y.)–Authorize federal urban and regional planning grants for areas where employment
opportunities have been reduced because of a decline in federal activities or orders. Voice.
Amendments Rejected
July 31–Tower–Delete the new programs and major amendments from the bill, but retain the extension of existing
programs. Roll-call vote, 19–64.
Olin D. Johnston (D S .C.)–Delete provision making the District of Columbia eligible, like other cities, for urban
renewal aid to nonresidential projects. Voice.
RELATED DEVELOPMENT–The House June 15 and the Senate June 26 passed by voice votes and cleared for
the President' s  signature, a bill (H J Res 1041–PL 88-340) extending the program of insured rental housing
loans for the elderly in rural areas for 90 days, from June 30, 1964, to Sept. 30, 1964. The bill was designed to
continue program operations until the longer extension could be enacted by the omnibus bill. The program was set
up under the Senior Citizens Housing Act of 1962 (PL 87-723). The Act permitted the Secretary of Agriculture to
insure loans not exceeding $100,000 made by private firms to individuals or companies to build rural rental housing
for the elderly. Passage of H J Res 1041 prevented an interruption in the program.
House
The House Banking and Currency Committee Aug. 5 reported a clean bill (HR 12175–H Rept 1703) by a vote of
18–1. There were no minority views and the report indicated wide bipartisan support for the bill. HR 12175
8/10/09 1:51 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 11 of 14http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal64-1304358&type=hitlist&num=3
18–1. There were no minority views and the report indicated wide bipartisan support for the bill. HR 12175
authorized $992 million to carry existing programs through June 30, 1965, and was a combination of provisions from
the Administration bill and GOP Rep. Widnall' s  proposal. The report said that the bill, as well as extending
programs for one year, contained amendments “designed to improve FHA sales and rental housing programs and to
improve the operation of the urban renewal program.”
HR 12175, as reported by the Committee, authorized two new programs. One, the only new Administration program
to be incorporated, authorized $10 million in 50–50 matching grants to train local urban development administrators.
The second, proposed by Widnall, established a program of low-interest loans to property owners and tenants in
urban renewal areas for property rehabilitation.
The bill also authorized contracting of 35,000 new low-rent public housing units involving federal contributions of $27
million annually for 40 years.
Other major amendments to existing housing legislation: (1) reduced downpayment requirements and permitted
larger mortgages on FHA-insured housing, (2) extended special programs for the elderly to the physically
handicapped, (3) increased relocation payments to help persons displaced by urban renewal projects to locate and
pay for adequate housing, (4) provided for enforcement of local minimum standards housing codes and (5) gave
additional protection against foreclosure to FHA-insured home owners. The downpayment, handicapped and housing
code provisions were not in the Administration bill.
House and Senate Bills Compared. The Senate bill extended housing programs for three months longer than did
the House bill, through Sept. 30, rather than June 30, 1965. It also authorized $1,201,500,000 as compared with the
House' s  $992 million. Most of this difference was in the grants for urban renewal–$850 million in the Senate
version and $600 million in the House version–and in the number of new public housing units authorized–45,000 in
the Senate and 35,000 in the House bill. All other authorizations for programs that appeared in both bills were the
same.
The Senate bill authorized three, and the House bill two entirely new programs. The House version contained the
Administration proposal authorizing $10 million in grants to the states to train urban renewal administrators and
conduct research, whereas the Senate bill contained Sen. Clark' s  provision authorizing $1.5 million for
university fellowships in urban planning. The House bill also contained $50 million for low-interest loans to
rehabilitate property in urban renewal areas. The Senate bill included two other new provisions, both requested by
the Administration: a $10 million program for construction of low-cost rental housing for domestic farm workers and
a program of loans for advance acquisition of land for public facilities.
Both bills provided for increased relocation assistance to persons displaced by urban renewal and public housing
projects, but the amounts were different. The House but not the Senate bill extended special programs for the
elderly to the handicapped and included liberalizations of FHA insurance programs, such as lowering the
downpayment requirements on FHA-insured homes. The Senate but not the House bill incorporated a major
Administration proposal authorizing the Federal National Mortgage Assn. to pool its federally insured mortgages and
sell participations or interests in the pool to private investors. It also authorized use of urban renewal funds for “air-
rights developments,” elevated sites for low-and middle-income housing.
Savings and Loan Investments
The House Committee also added to the housing bill an Administration-backed bill (HR 9609) broadening the
lending and investment authority of federally chartered savings and loan associations. The bill, which had passed
the House by voice vote Feb. 17 but had received no action in the Senate, allowed associations to make bigger
loans for home improvements, to invest in state and local bonds, and permitted public funds of the U. S . to be
invested in associations. (For more detailed provisions, see provisions of the final housing bill, p. 274)
Existing law limited federal associations' investments to U. S . securities and obligations of the Federal National
Mortgage Assn. Lending was primarily for residential real estate with some authority for other types of real estate
and for home improvements. In 1963, total assets of all state or federally chartered savings and loan associations
surpassed $100 billion for the first time; federally chartered associations held about $50 billion in assets at the end
of the year. The rapid growth of savings and loan assets during the last decade created pressures for new lending
and investment outlets. Government officials noted that the annual flow of funds through associations, including new
savings and loan repayments, exceeded $20 billion annually, with slightly more than one-half in federal
associations.
The House Committee report (H Rept 1100) on the original bill said that a broadened investment power “seems
clearly warranted” because of “the size of this growing industry.” “Otherwise the present limitations would result in
damming up a very large body of savings and investment in an area which by reason of fluctuations in the economy
might at times be unnecessarily narrow.”
Floor Action
The House Aug. 13 passed the housing bill (HR 12175) with amendments by a roll-call vote of 308–68. (For voting,
see chart p. 650) After passage, the text of HR 12175 was substituted for that of S 3049 , the Senate-passed
bill, and the latter was sent to conference.
During debate, there was little opposition to HR 12175, which was termed by several Members a bipartisan bill.
Republicans joined Democrats in praising the record of Housing Subcommittee Chairman Albert Rains (D Ala.), who
8/10/09 1:51 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 12 of 14http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal64-1304358&type=hitlist&num=3
was retiring in 1964. Members also drew attention to provisions of the bill which came from the Republican proposal
(HR 9771). John H. Kyl (R Iowa) said, “This bill is a major step in the direction of reform, particularly in its code
enforcement, relocation, and rehabilitation sections which are greatly indebted to the Republican housing bill.”
Prior to passage, the House rejected an amendment by Oliver P. Bolton (R Ohio) on an 89–100 teller vote. The
Bolton amendment would have extended the insurance authority of the FHA beyond the expiration date of Oct. 1,
1965, by permitting it indefinitely to use funds from cancellations of existing commitments or from payoff of insured
mortgage loans. Rains opposed the amendment, saying that it would remove FHA from the control of Congress. A
motion by Clarence E. Kilburn (R N.Y.) to recommit the bill with instructions to the Committee to report it back with
the Bolton amendment was narrowly defeated on a 184–194 roll call. A majority of Republicans voted for the
recommittal motion. By giving the popular FHA indefinite authority, Republicans would have removed a lever which
the Democratic leadership could use to bring up a new housing bill in 1965. Public housing and urban renewal have
traditionally been opposed by a majority of Republicans.
Other amendments to the bill were minor.
Amendments Accepted
Aug. 13—William B. Widnall (R N.J.)—Authorize federal savings and loan associations to invest in state chartered
corporations which supplement and facilitate the services of the savings and loan associations. (The amendment
affected only the state of New Jersey.) Voice vote.
Robert Taft Jr. (R Ohio)—Authorize federal savings and loan associations to make loans to college students, provided
that the total amount of the loans do not exceed 5 percent of the association' s  assets. Voice.
Oliver P. Bolton (R Ohio)—Permit a person who has paid off part of an FHA-insured mortgage and who is required,
for work or other reasons, to move to another part of the country to transfer the amount he has paid toward the
purchase of an FHA-held house in the new area, if the FHA is willing to take title to the original house. Voice.
Amendments Rejected
Aug. 13—Oliver P. Bolton (R Ohio)—Authorize the FHA to use funds from cancellations of existing commitments and
payoff of insured mortgage loans to continue insuring homes after Oct. 1, 1965, the expiration date of its authority.
Teller, 89–100.
Leonard Farbstein (D N.Y.)—Stipulate that any rental or cooperative housing built in an urban renewal area, cleared
jointly by the Government and the municipality, should be designed primarily for low-and middle-income families.
The amendment was designed to prevent construction of “luxury” housing in urban renewal areas. Voice vote.
Conferences
The Senate by voice vote, and the House by a 310–70 roll call, Aug. 19 approved the conference report (H Rept
1828) on S 3049  and cleared it for the President' s  signature. (For voting, see chart p. 654) The final bill
authorized $1,130,750,000 to fund new and existing housing and urban renewal programs through Sept. 30, 1965. It
was described by proponents as a “bare-bones” bill, but it included many of the Administration' s  1964
proposals and a substantial part of the funds requested.
The final bill authorized four new programs, two proposed by the Senate and two from the House bill. The Senate
provisions authorized (1) $10 million for construction of low-cost rental housing for domestic farm workers (an
Administration request) and (2) $1.5 million over a three-year period (fiscal 1965-67) for graduate training
fellowships in city planning (a proposal by Sen. Joseph S . Clark (D Pa.). The House provisions authorized (3)
$10 million in 50–50 matching grants to train local urban development administrators (an Administration proposal)
and (4) $50 million for low-interest loans to property owners in urban renewal areas, to help rehabilitate their
property and thereby avoid total demolition and reconstruction (a proposal by Rep. William B. Widnall (R N.J.). No
new programs were deleted by the conferees.
The conference bill split the difference between the Senate and House bills in authorizing $725 million for urban
renewal capital grants—the Senate had provided $850 million, the House $600 million. Conferees also agreed on
$30,250,000 annually for 40 years to contract for 37,500 additional public housing units. The Senate had provided
45,000 new units and the House 35,000. All other authorizations were the same in the two bills.
The following other major final provisions originated in the Senate bill: extension of housing programs to Oct. 1,
1965 (rather than to June 30 as in the House bill); provision for the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) to aid
homeowners who found structural defects in houses purchased with FHA-insured loans; authority for the Federal
National Mortgage Assn. to pool its mortgages and sell interests in the pool to private investors (an Administration
proposal); and expansion of planning grants to help communities suffering from loss of Government contracts or
closing of federal installations.
The following final provisions originated in the House bill: higher FHA mortgage ceilings enabling the Housing
Administration to insure more expensive homes; extension of special housing programs to the physically
handicapped; and several provisions broadening the investment authority of savings and loan associations. A House
provision reducing downpayment requirements on FHA-insured housing was not retained by the conferees.
8/10/09 1:51 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 13 of 14http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal64-1304358&type=hitlist&num=3
Conferees reached a compromise on an expanded relocation assistance program to help families and small
businesses readjust in a new area after being displaced by urban renewal or public housing projects. The Senate
bill, close to an Administration request, provided monthly payments to displaced, low-income families for up to 12
months, to make up the difference between the rent required for decent housing and the amount they could afford,
and paid small businesses $1,000 plus $1,500 if they were not re-established within one year. The House bill
provided families with up to $200 for the first three months' rent or mortgage payment after displacement and
provided small businesses with a flat sum of $1,000. The final bill provided a maximum “relocation adjustment
payment” of up to $500 for families, and a flat $1,500 for small businesses.
President' s  Statement. In signing the Housing Act of 1964 (PL 88-560), President Johnson Sept. 2 said, “This
bill carries forward our continuing efforts to eradicate slums and blight in our cities, to assure decent housing for
those least able to find it–the poor, the elderly, the severely handicapped–and those in our rural areas; to help our
communities grow in orderly directions and avoid future blight and assure lasting beauty.”
Appropriations
Appropriations for activities of the Housing and Home Finance Agency were provided in the independent offices
appropriations bill for fiscal 1965 (HR 11296–PL 88-507), which was enacted before the housing authorization bill,
and in the fiscal 1965 supplemental appropriations bill (HR 12633–PL 88-635) enacted at the end of the session.
(See stories p. 170, 175)
HR 11296 appropriated $478,371,400 for HHFA and the supplemental provided $87,762,500. (The latter figure
included $65 million for urban mass transit programs authorized by a separate bill.) Administration-requested funds
for the new training program in community development and for the new relocation assistance provisions of the
urban renewal program were not appropriated. No funds were requested and none provided for the two new
Congressional proposals which were authorized: the rehabilitation loans and the urban planning fellowships.
The supplemental provided $11,325,000 for urban planning grants, $1,250,000 for low-income housing
demonstration programs and $10,000,000 for public works planning grants. Funds for the newly authorized public
housing and urban renewal contracts were not requested since they are appropriated for after contracts with local
authorities have been made.
Features
Description of Major Federal Housing Agencies
The Housing and Home Finance Agency was created July 27, 1947, under Reorganization Plan No. 3, and is
responsible for the principal housing, home finance and community development functions of the Federal
Government. The Agency consists of an Office of the Administrator and five operating units or agencies –Federal
Housing Administration, Public Housing Administration, Federal National Mortgage Assn., Community Facilities
Administration and the Urban Renewal Administration. They carry on the following major functions:
Office of the HHFA Administrator–Besides supervising and coordinating the constituent parts of the Agency, the
Administrator must approve community programs for the prevention and elimination of slums and blight conditions in
order to establish a community' s  eligibility for federal urban renewal assistance, dispose of certain federally owned
housing properties and supervise certain disaster and relief activities relating to housing.
Federal Housing Administration–The FHA was created by the National Housing Act of 1934 in order to encourage the
improvement of housing standards, to provide a system of mortgage insurance and help stabilize the mortgage market.
It insures approved private lenders against loss on mortgage loans made for property improvement, cooperative housing
projects, one- to four-family sales housing units, rental projects, armed services housing, and the construction or
rehabilitation of housing in urban renewal areas.
Public Housing Administration–PHA was created July 27, 1947 to administer the low-rent public housing program
authorized by the 1937 Housing Act.
Federal National Mortgage Assn.–FNMA was originally chartered on Feb. 10, 1938 and is authorized to conduct
secondary market operations by buying Government-insured or guaranteed mortgages where and when investment
funds are in short supply and by selling such mortgages where and when investment capital is readily available. FNMA
also has special assistance functions to support selected types of home mortgages pending establishment of their
marketability and in order to prevent a decline in mortgage-lending and home-building activities.
Community Facilities Administration–The CFA was established Dec. 23, 1954 and provides technical and financial
assistance to public bodies and to nonprofit organizations in planning, financing and constructing community facilities,
such as college housing; sewer, water and other public works; advance planning for public facilities; housing for the
elderly; and certain school construction.
Urban Renewal Administration–The URA was established Dec. 23, 1954 and administers the federal program of slum
clearance and urban renewal, the urban planning assistance program and the program for developing improved
techniques for preventing and eliminating urban blight.
Other Programs–Other federal activities in housing include: the Veterans Administration' s  loan guarantee and
direct loan programs, the farm housing program of the Farmers Home Administration of the Department of Agriculture,
8/10/09 1:51 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 14 of 14http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal64-1304358&type=hitlist&num=3
direct loan programs, the farm housing program of the Farmers Home Administration of the Department of Agriculture,
and the activities of the Federal Savings and Loan System, the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp. and the
Federal Home Loan Bank System.
Funds Authorized
The Housing Act of 1964 authorized the following funds through Sept. 30, 1965:
Urban renewal capital grants $725,000,000
Property rehabilitation loans 50,000,000
Urban planning grants 30,000,000
Public housing demonstration 5,000,000
Public works planning advances 20,000,000
Rural housing loans 150,000,000
Open space land grants 25,000,000
Housing for the elderly loans 75,000,000
Community development training 10,000,000
Domestic farm workers' units 10,000,000
City planning fellowships 500,000
 $1,100,500,000
In addition, the Act authorized $30,250,000 to contract for servicing 37,500 newly constructed public housing units.
Over the 40-year life of these units the Federal Government' s cost would approximate $1,210,000,000.
Document Citation
"Housing Act Expands Existing Programs." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal64-1304358.
Originally published in CQ Almanac 1964 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1965).
http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal64-1304358 (accessed August 10, 2009).
Document ID: cqal64-1304358
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal64-1304358
© 1965, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
