8/10/09 1:55 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 8http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal66-1300376&type=hitlist&num=0
Antitrust
2000 House Votes for Change In
Antitrust Law to Allow Doctors to
Unionize
1990 Antitrust Fines Hiked; Director
Curbs Eased
1987 House Passes Bill to Help Fight
Price Fixing
1984 Municipal Antitrust Shield
1983 Maritime Antitrust Differences
Unsettled
1982 Maritime Antitrust Bill
1982 Foreign Nations, Antitrust
1981 Pfizer Antitrust Measure
1980 Soft Drink Bottlers Given
Antitrust Protection
1980 Antitrust Procedures
1978 Antitrust Violations
1976 Major Antitrust Enforcement Bill
Passed
1975 Antitrust Legislation
1974 Antitrust Law Changes
1973 Antitrust Procedures
1970 Conglomerate Mergers
1970 Antitrust Penalties
1967 Antitrust Exemptions
1966 Bank Merger Law Revised
1965 Revision of Bank Merger Act
Debated
1965 Bank Merger Bill
1964 Antitrust Decisions
1962 Relief Granted Dupont
Stockholders in Antitrust Case
1962 Civil Antitrust Documents
1961 Antitrust Enforcement
1959 Antitrust Documents
1957 Oil Prices Investigated
1955 Antitrust Measures
1955 Antitrust Investigations
1947 Railroad Antitrust Exemption
Professional Sports
S 1698 – Reported by Senate Banking
and Currency Committee (S Rept 299)
June 8, 1965.
S 1698 – Passed by voice vote of the
Senate June 11, 1965.
S 1698 – Reported by House Banking and
Currency Committee (H Rept 1179) Oct.
19, 1965.
HR 12173 – Reported by House Banking
and Currency Committee (H Rept 1221)
Jan. 24, 1966.
S 1698 – Passed, amended, by a 372–17
roll-call vote of the House Feb. 8, 1966.
(For vote chart, see p. 854.)
S 1698 – House amendments agreed to
by voice vote of the Senate Feb. 9, 1966.
PL 89-356 – Signed into law Feb. 21,
Bank Merger Law Revised
An article from CQ Almanac 1966
Document Outline
Provision
Background
1966 Developments
Final Action
Interpretations Differ
Litigation
New Suits
Features
Congress in 1966 enacted amendments to the Bank Merger Act of 1960 in an
attempt to clarify the applicability of the antitrust laws to bank mergers. When
final action on the amendments had been taken, it remained uncertain how
successful Congress had been in making that clarification. The major
questions in the controversy went to the Supreme Court late in the year for
resolution in 1967. (See p. 772.)
The amendments were enacted in a bill (S 1698–PL 89-356) which was
passed and became law early in the session. The bill had been passed in the
Senate in 1965 and reported by a controversial rump session of the House
Banking and Currency Committee late in that year, but no House action was
taken. A drastically revised House version was passed by the House on Feb.
8, 1966, and the Senate, with a few misgivings, agreed to the amended
version by voice vote the next day.
As described by its supporters, the bill established uniform standards for bank
regulatory agencies, the Justice Department and the courts in settling upon
legal validity of bank mergers. Most supporters said the bill did not exempt
bank mergers from the antitrust laws and still prohibited anticompetitive
mergers. They said the bill went a step further in providing that
anticompetitive factors in a merger could be overridden if the convenience to
the community “clearly outweighed” the anticompetitive nature of the merger.
The bill gave the Justice
Department 30 days in which
to challenge the proposed
mergers and, in a key
provision, exempted three
major mergers which the
Justice Department had
opposed. Three other major
mergers, also opposed by
the Department, were not
exempted but were brought within the scope of the bill to be
adjudged by its new standards.
Thus did Congress attempt to settle a dispute arising from the Bank
Merger Act of 1960 over whether the antitrust provisions of the
Sherman Antitrust Act and the Clayton Act applied to banks in the
same way that they applied to other industries. The 1960 Act had
been interpreted differently by different agencies. The Justice
Department resolutely maintained that the Act made no exemption
for banks and that the legality of bank mergers hinged on their
impact on competition. A number of Senators and Representatives
disagreed, arguing that it had been the intention of Congress in
1960 to provide for specialized treatment of bank mergers. Bank
regulatory agencies–and banks themselves–adopted that view, and
 
8/10/09 1:55 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 8http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal66-1300376&type=hitlist&num=0
PL 89-356 – Signed into law Feb. 21,
1966.
regulatory agencies–and banks themselves–adopted that view, and
something of an internecine war between the agencies ensued.
(1960 Almanac p. 301)
The Justice Department, charged with enforcing the antitrust laws,
brought suit against four major bank mergers following enactment
of the 1960 Act and contended that they were illegal because they were anticompetitive. The first of these cases
reached the Supreme Court in 1963. The Court ruled in U.S. v. Philadelphia National Bank (1963) that Section 7 of
the Clayton Act did apply to bank mergers and that nothing in the 1960 Act had changed that applicability. The
Justice Department interpreted the decision as a vindication of its position, and pressed on with three more suits
against major bank mergers. (All seven of the mergers that were involved in the controversy had been approved by
federal bank regulatory officials who had jurisdiction over the individual banks. See below for names of merging
banks.) The Justice Department's actions set the stage for the proposal to amend the 1960 Act to make more clear
the intention of Congress. Just three weeks after a lower court decision regarding the Manufacturers Trust Co. and
the Hanover Bank in New York City, which were seeking to merge, Sen. A. Willis Robertson (D Va), chairman of the
Senate Banking and Currency Committee, introduced the original version of S 1698. That version simply exempted
from the antitrust laws all six major bank mergers then under attack by the Justice Department.
In the version finally enacted, S 1698 exempted only the three remaining “pre-Philadelphia” mergers, those
undertaken before Philadelphia National was decided on June 17, 1963. The theory was that the banks in those
cases had no Supreme Court decision to rely upon and proposed their mergers on the basis of existing agency
interpretations of the law. The three mergers postdating the Philadelphia decision, it was felt, had the benefit of that
decision and the banks undertaking those mergers did so at their peril.
Justice Department Stands Fast. Following enactment of S 1698, the Justice Department, which had vigorously
opposed the bill, stood fast by its contention that the antitrust laws still applied in the same way to bank mergers. It
filed suit against two bank mergers, in Texas and Pennsylvania, on the grounds that they substantially lessened
competition and therefore violated the antitrust laws Lower courts ruled adversely to the United States in both
cases, and the cases found their way to the Supreme Court, where they were argued on Feb. 21, 1967. The
decisions in the cases were expected later in 1967. The central question for decision was whether the Justice
Department had to prove not only that the merger lessened competition, but also that the anticompetitive effects
were not “clearly outweighed” by the effect of the merger in meeting the needs and convenience of the
community.(See below.)
Provision
As signed into law, S 1698 contained these major provisions:
Merger Rules. Directed the federal bank regulatory agency (the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Reserve
Board or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., depending on the bank involved) to disapprove anticompetitive bank
mergers (including consolidations, acquisitions of assets and assumptions of liabilities) unless the agency concluded
that the anticompetitive effects of the merger “are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of
the (merger) in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served.” Specified that an illegal merger
would be one whose effect “may be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly,” or to
restrain trade.
Directed the regulatory agencies to prohibit any proposed bank merger, regardless of circumstances, which violated
Section 2 of the Sherman Antitrust Act (which prohibited attempts and conspiracies to monopolize trade or
commerce).
Required the regulatory agency, in all cases, to consider the “financial and managerial resources and future
prospects of the existing and proposed institutions, and the convenience and needs of the community to be served.”
Waiting Period. Provided that an approved merger could not take place for 30 days after approval (although in an
emergency to prevent failure of one of the banks, the merger could be consummated immediately or within five
days), and permitted suits (by the Justice Department, normally) to be filed during this waiting period challenging the
merger under the antitrust laws.
Specified that such a suit would prevent the merger, unless the court ordered otherwise, until the case was
concluded.
Exempted mergers consummated after the waiting period from antitrust attack except under the antimonopoly
wording of Section 2 of the Sherman Act (see above).
Directed the courts to apply to any merger proposal challenged in an antitrust suit the criteria established by the bill
for use by regulatory agencies in judging proposed mergers.
Permitted any of the federal bank regulatory agencies approving a bank merger to appear in court in an antitrust
suit challenging the merger and present its reasons for its action. Permitted any state banking supervisory agency
having jurisdiction within the state involved to present its views to the court in an antitrust case.
Pending Cases. Excused from further antitrust prosecution (except under the antimonopoly wording of Section 2 of
the Sherman–see above) mergers consummated before June 17, 1963 (the date of a Supreme Court decision ruling
applying the Clayton Antitrust Act to bank mergers).
8/10/09 1:55 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 8http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal66-1300376&type=hitlist&num=0
Prohibited prosecution under the antitrust laws (except under Section 2 of the Sherman Act) of mergers
consummated after June 17, 1963, and before enactment of the bill if the U.S. Attorney General had not challenged
them in court. In any cases not so exempted, directed the courts to apply the merger criteria provided in the bill
when judging the merger.
Provided that any application for approval of a merger which was withdrawn before enactment of the bill as a result
of objections by the Attorney General could be resubmitted and would be acted upon under the new criteria.
Background
Reference – 1965 Almanac p. 848. For background on antitrust laws, see Congress and the Nation p. 443.
The 1950 amendments to Section 7 of the Clayton Act prohibited acquisition by one corporation of assets of another
corporation subject to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) jurisdiction if the merger would substantially lessen
competition or tend to create a monopoly. Since banks are not subject to the FTC, it was widely believed that the
Act did not control most bank mergers.
The Eisenhower Administration, through the Justice Department, asked Congress in 1956 to extend Section 7 to the
acquisition of assets by banks. Although the House passed the bill in 1956, the Senate took a different approach
and no legislation was enacted. The same situation arose in 1959. In 1960, however, the two chambers agreed on
a bill permitting the three federal bank regulatory agencies to approve bank mergers if found to be in the public
interest. These agencies were the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. The House Committee, which authored the compromise, said in its report, “some bank mergers are
in the public interest even though they lessen competition to a degree.” But it added that “approval of a merger
should depend on a positive showing of some benefit to be derived from it.”(1960 Almanac p. 301)
During debate, Sen. J.W. Fulbright (D Ark.) who had been chairman of the Banking and Currency Committee until
1959, said the House and Senate agreed that control of bank mergers should be based on both banking and
competitive factors and that the antimerger provisions of the Clayton Act “should continue to be inapplicable to bank
mergers.”
The 1960 Act required a bank regulatory agency to obtain the views of the Attorney General and the other bank
agencies before granting or withholding consent to a bank merger, but it did not give a veto power to the Justice
Department.
The Justice Department, however, beginning in 1961 brought suit against seven proposed mergers, contending they
violated Section 7 of the Clayton Act or Section 1 of the Sherman Act, or both. The banks involved were the
Philadelphia National Bank and the Girard Trust Corn Exchange Bank in Philadelphia; the Manufacturer's Trust Co.
and Hanover Bank in New York; the First National Bank & Trust Co. and Security Trust Co. in Lexington, Ky.; the
Continental-Illinois National Bank & Trust Co. and City National Bank & Trust Co. in Chicago; the Mercantile Trust
Co. and Security Trust Co. in St. Louis; the Crocker-Anglo National Bank of San Francisco and Citizens National
Bank of Los Angeles; and the Third National Bank and Nashville Bank & Trust Co. in Nashville, Tenn.
The first proposed merger to be contested by Justice was the one in Philadelphia. The test case was filed Feb. 25,
1961. The Supreme Court, in a June 17, 1963, decision, found the merger would be in violation of Section 7 of the
Clayton Act, thus extending the coverage of Section 7 to banks.
Of the six other mergers contested by the Justice Department, three were consummated before the Supreme Court
decision in the test case June 17,1963, and three consummated after that date. The Philadelphia merger, blocked
by the courts, was never consummated.
Mergers consummated prior to the 1963 decision were those in New York, Lexington and Chicago. Those
consummated after the decision were the ones in St. Louis, Nashville and San Francisco and Los Angeles.
S 1698
In an effort to obtain relief for the banks under Justice Department prosecution for violation of the antitrust laws,
Sen. A. Willis Robertson (D Va.), chairman of the Senate Banking and Currency Committee, in 1965 introduced a bill
(S 1698) which would have prohibited Justice Department antitrust action against any bank merger approved by a
federal bank regulatory agency. Robertson said the bill was designed to clarify Congressional intent, in the 1960
Bank Merger Act, to exempt approved bank mergers from antitrust laws. Following objections to this blanket
exemption by the Independent Bankers Association of America, representing mostly small banks, and indications
that such legislation would meet strong opposition in the House, the Committee adopted substitute provisions,
offered by Sen. William Proxmire (D Wis.), allowing the Justice Department 30 days in which to object to a merger
approved by the appropriate federal bank agency. The substitute also exempted from further prosecution the six
remaining mergers being challenged by the Justice Department. (See list above) (Among the bank regulatory
agencies, the Comptroller of the Currency has jurisdiction over mergers involving national banks, the Federal
Reserve Board jurisdiction over mergers involving state banks that are members of the Federal Reserve System,
and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. jurisdiction over insured state banks that were not members of the Federal
Reserve System.)
8/10/09 1:55 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 8http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal66-1300376&type=hitlist&num=0
The Senate Banking and Currency Committee June 8 unanimously reported S 1698 (S Rept 299) and the Senate
June 11 passed the bill by voice vote.
Bill Delayed in House
Although the Senate Committee modified S 1698 reportedly in an attempt to win the support of House Banking
Committee Chairman Wright Patman (D Texas), the latter Aug. 11 said that, while he was not prejudging the Senate
bill, legislation “in any way weakening antitrust law and administration should be viewed…with utmost scrutiny and
caution.”
The Domestic Finance Subcommittee of the House Banking and Currency Committee, both chaired by Patman, held
hearings on S 1698 and other bills between Aug. 11 and Sept. 28. Attorney General Nicholas deB. Katzenbach Aug.
18 called the portion of the bill that exempted approved bank mergers from antitrust actions “outrageous,” because,
he said, “banking cannot and should not be distinguished from other industries for which no special procedure is
proposed.” Katzenbach's statement had been cleared with the Budget Bureau, and Patman Sept. 16 told James J.
Saxon, Comptroller of the Currency, that he considered it to represent the Administration's position. Saxon, who
supported the Senate bill, said he “was not aware that Mr. Katzenbach represents the position of the Administration
on the bill, if the Administration has a position on the bill,” K.A. Randall, chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp., noted that his testimony (giving qualified support to S 1698) had also been cleared by the Budget Bureau but
that he did not “believe there has been an endorsement of my views, just a clearance.”
The Subcommittee Oct. 1 approved, by a 7 to 5 vote, a revised version of S 1698 giving the Justice Department 60
days–instead of the 30 days proposed by the Senate–in which to review proposed mergers and exempting the three
bank mergers consummated prior to the Supreme Court ruling of June 17, 1963. The effect of this provision was to
withhold antitrust immunity from three of the six bank mergers under prosecution by the Justice Department. Under
the Senate version, all six mergers would have received retroactive immunity from antitrust prosecution. Patman
voted to approve the Subcommittee bill–apparently, observers believed, because it had no chance of passage on
the floor.
Meantime, Thomas L. Ashley (D Ohio) Sept. 13 introduced legislation (HR 11011) to require the courts to follow
guidelines of the 1960 Bank Merger Act rather than the antitrust statutes in their consideration of bank merger
challenges. The guidelines were that the banking agencies must consider the financial history of the banks involved;
the adequacy of capital structure, future earnings prospects and character of management of merging and resulting
institutions; and the merger's effect on competition and the public interest. Ashley's bill permitted the Justice
Department 30 days to contest a proposed merger approved by a bank regulatory agency, but required the
Department to follow the 1960 Act's guidelines, instead of basing its case only on the Clayton and Sherman Acts.
The measure also exempted from pending antitrust action the three banks merged before the Supreme Court ruling.
Including Ashley, 19 Committee members (11 R, 8 D) supported this bill–a majority of the 33-member Committee.
The supporters of the Ashley bill then sought to substitute its provisions for the Subcommittee version of S 1698.
but Patman and those who supported him used a variety of delaying tactics to frustrate them. Patman adjourned an
Oct. 18 meeting after seven minutes for lack of a quorum when only 13 members (four less than necessary)
attended.
The Ashley faction, invoking a rarely used Committee rule requiring regular meetings of the Committee on the first
and third Tuesdays of the month, met the next day, Oct. 19, and reported S 1698 (H Rept 1179), amended by
substitution of the text of the Ashley bill. Patman denounced the meeting as illegal. The bill was not acted on before
the 1965 session adjourned.
1966 Developments
In a Jan. 5 letter to Committee member Henry S. Reuss (D Wis.), an ally of Patman's in opposing the procedure
followed in reporting S 1698, Katzenbach modified the Justice Department's opposition to new bank merger
legislation. The Attorney General concurred with the Ashley bill on the need for the banking agencies, the Justice
Department and the courts to follow the same criteria in evaluating bank mergers. He proposed that the competitive
test be made “dominant” in consideration of a merger by all federal parties. But Katzenbach continued to oppose a
deadline for antitrust suits against a merger and retroactive approval of the contested mergers.
Ashley Bill Upheld. Patman called a meeting of the House Banking and Currency Committee on Jan. 18 to
consider an amendment to S 1698 by Reuss embodying the Attorney General's proposal. However, Ashley objected
on the point of order that S 1698 had been legally reported by the Committee, and could be amended only on the
House floor. Patman overruled the point of order, but was reversed on an 18–14 vote in support of Ashley. Seven
Democrats voted with Ashley and 10 Republicans on the issue. The Democrats were Moorhead (Pa.), Stephens
(Ga.), Grabowski (Conn.), Gettys (S.C.), Cabell (Texas), Hansen (Iowa) and Ottinger (N.Y.). The Committee's 11th
Republican, Fino (N.Y.), abstained.
Intervention by McCormack. House Speaker McCormack called Patman and Ashley to a private meeting on the
evening of Jan. 18. along with eight other members of the Committee, to settle the feud over Committee procedure.
It was agreed that the Committee would meet Jan. 19 and consider new bank merger legislation as a substitute for
S 1698.
New Bill Drafted. The Committee Jan. 19, in a two hour executive session, reached agreement on a compromise
8/10/09 1:55 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 8http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal66-1300376&type=hitlist&num=0
New Bill Drafted. The Committee Jan. 19, in a two hour executive session, reached agreement on a compromise
providing a single set of standards for the consideration of bank mergers by the regulatory agencies, the
Department of Justice and the courts. The standards permitted mergers only if the needs of the community
outweighed the anticompetitive effect of the merger. In the most meaningful vote of the meeting, the Committee
voted 26–4, with two abstentions, to prohibit mergers which substantially lessened competition unless the
anticompetitive factors were “clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of such transaction in
meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served.” That was a compromise drafted by Ashley and
Reuss, who said it left the competitive test dominant in any final decision on a merger. The Committee by a 30–2
vote approved the bill. Charles L. Weltner (D Ga.) and Paul H. Todd Jr. (D Mich.) opposed the bill. Henry B. Gonzalez
(D Texas) was absent. Patman introduced a clean bill (HR 12173) and the Committee ordered it reported that
afternoon. Patman voted for the bill and pledged to manage it on the floor.
Bill Reported. The Committee Jan. 24 reported HR 12173 (H Rept 1221). Gonzalez, Todd and Weltner filed
dissenting views.
Bills Compared
The 1966 House bill and the 1965 Senate bill differed in several ways:
Mergers. The House bill authorized approval of bank mergers if the anticompetitive effects were “clearly
outweighed” by the effects of meeting the needs and convenience of the community to be served. The Senate
version was silent on legal standards for mergers.
Exemptions. The House bill exempted from further antitrust prosecution the three “pre-Philadelphia” bank mergers
in New York City, Chicago and Lexington, Ky. The Senate bill exempted all six mergers against which the Justice
Department had suits pending. No merger was exempted from Section 2 of the Sherman Act, which barred
monopolies.
Justice. Both bills gave the Justice Department 30 days in which to object to proposed bank mergers.
Agencies. The House bill authorized bank regulatory agencies, both state and federal, to intervene in litigation
attacking proposed mergers. The Senate bill had no such provision.
Pendancy. The House bill delayed a merger challenged by the Justice Department but permitted the court to allow
the merger to proceed during the suit if it was appropriate to do so. The Senate bill blocked the merger until the suit
was decided.
House Floor Action
The House Feb. 8 by a 372–17 roll-call vote passed S 1698, amended, and returned it to the Senate. The
amendment was the language of the House bill (HR 12173) which was first passed by voice vote and then
substituted for that of S 1698. (For voting, see chart p. 854.)
Patman told the House that the purpose of the bill was to preserve application of the antitrust laws to bank mergers.
He said that an anticompetitive merger was still illegal and could only be approved if the banks carried the burden of
proving that the anticompetitive factor was “clearly outweighed” by the effect of the merger in meeting the needs
and convenience of the community to be served. The Committee's ranking Republican, William B. Widnall (N.J.),
Ashley and Reuss agreed with that interpretation.
But other Members did not. Judiciary Committee Chairman Emanuel Celler (D N.Y.), while supporting the bill, said it
would result in some “weakening” of the antitrust laws' application to bank mergers. Weltner predicted further
litigation to clarify what he called a new standard being applied to bank mergers, while Gonzalez charged that the bill
was vague. Paul A. Fino (R N.Y.) said the bill weakened the antitrust laws by allowing mergers to be approved when
local economic factors outweighed the anticompetitive nature of the mergers. He questioned too, whether the bill
applied at all to the acquisition by one bank of the stock of another.
Todd sought to delete the language exempting the three “pre-Philadelphia” mergers, but his amendment was
rejected.
Amendments Rejected
Feb. 8–Paul H. Todd Jr. (D Mich.)–Delete language exempting from further antitrust prosecution bank mergers
consummated before June 17, 1963. Voice vote.
John D. Dingell (D Mich.)–Retitle the bill, “A bill for the relief of the First Security National Bank and Trust Company,
the Continental-Illinois National Bank and Trust Company and the Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, and for
other purposes.” Voice.
Final Action
The Senate Banking and Currency Committee Feb. 9 by a 9–2 vote approved the House version of S 1698.
Approval came after a 4–9 vote against deleting the section authorizing state and federal bank regulatory agencies
to intervene in suits challenging bank mergers.
8/10/09 1:55 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 8http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal66-1300376&type=hitlist&num=0
The Senate Feb. 9 by voice vote agreed to the House amendments to S 1698, thus clearing the bill for the
President's signature.
Before clearing the bill, the Senate tabled a motion by Philip A. Hart (D Mich.), chairman of the Senate Judiciary
Subcommittee on Antitrust and Monopoly, to refer the bill to the Judiciary Committee (and presumably then to his
Subcommittee) with instructions to report it back within 20 days. Hart contended that the House bill was new, that
the Senate had held no hearings on its new provisions and that the Judiciary Committee should have a chance to
hear expert witnesses testify on its provisions.
As in the House, there were differing interpretations of the bill. Robertson said that it overruled the Philadelphia
decision. Jacob K. Javits (R N.Y.) said the bill honored the antitrust laws and did not throw them into the “ashcan.”
But Hart said the bill took “a whack at the antitrust laws” by moderating their applicability to bank mergers. Proxmire
agreed with Hart, saying: “In providing special treatment for bank mergers the House not only has, in effect,
amended the antitrust laws but it has substituted a new standard that is so novel and so vague that no one
understands its meaning.”
Robertson said the bill provided that “when a merger is proposed, and has been recommended by the banking
agencies, and the Justice Department does not agree with them and takes the case into court, something other than
the harsh rule of Section 7 of the Clayton Act will apply but under standards specially designed for banks. They
would still be subject to the antitrust laws.” Later in the debate he said that “the bill makes clear that while the
anticompetitive effects of a proposed merger are to have great weight, the probable effects of the merger on the
public interest are to be controlling.”
Interpretations Differ
What the Wall Street Journal described as the “zany journey” of S 1698 through Congress, after months of “comic
parliamentary pratfalls and fishwifely invective,” did not end with enactment of the bill. Rather, a new chapter opened
in the continuing story of bank mergers and the antitrust laws.
The two top bank experts in Congress had differed about the bill. Patman told the House that the bill still applied the
antitrust laws to bank mergers. He said, “It allows the competitive factor to be overridden only in those cases where
it is established by the proponents of the merger that the convenience and needs of the community to be served by
the merger clearly outweighs in the public interest the resulting diminution of competition.” After describing the Bank
Merger Act of 1960, he said, “This bill, in contrast, makes the competitive factor preeminent.” (The 1960 Act had
listed seven factors which agencies had to consider before approving bank mergers.)
Robertson had a different interpretation for the Senate. If the competitive factor was “preeminent” to Patman, it was
not to Robertson. The Senator said anticompetitive effects of a proposed merger would have “great weight,” but that
the effects of the merger on the public interest were to be “controlling.” He said that the antitrust laws, including
Section 7 of the Clayton Act. would apply to bank mergers, but in a special way. The effects on competition were to
be measured against the convenience to the community, he said, and if the beneficial effects outweighed the
anticompetitive effects, a merger could be validated even though otherwise it would be in violation of the antitrust
laws.
The Justice Department, however, took the view that if any changes were made by the new law, they were in the
direction of applying the antitrust laws more strictly to bank mergers. On Feb. 28, just seven days after the law was
signed, Donald F. Turner, Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Antitrust Division, wrote his opinion of the
law's meaning to Judge Alphonso J. Zirpoli of the federal district court in San Francisco. Judge Zirpoli had asked for
Turner's interpretation of the law as applied to the suit challenging the merger that established the Crocker-Angelo
National Bank in San Francisco.
“What the new law does,” Turner wrote, “is impose on the banking agencies responsibility for giving–not just equal–
but paramount consideration to the competition implications of bank mergers…. This is what the courts in antitrust
cases, including Philadelphia, have always done…. While the new legislation thus gives emphasis to the need for
uniformity in the bank merger field, it is our view that it has not resulted in any substantial change in substantive
antitrust law.”
On May 18, Deputy Attorney General Ramsey Clark wrote Robertson about certain other pending banking
legislation and in the letter referred to the 1966 bank merger bill as containing a “vague, uncertain standard” by
which to judge mergers. He said that S 1698 was intended “to provide relief for merged banks that were surprised
by the Philadelphia National Bank decision and to assert a Congressional intent that bank mergers should not be
treated in exactly the same way as other mergers.”
Clark gave this description of the bill: “In enacting the Bank Merger Act of 1966, Congress rendered uniform the
standards to be applied by both courts and banking agencies and in doing so it emphasized that the most important
factor by far–to be considered by agencies as well as courts–is the effect of the proposed transaction on
competition.”
The context in which Clark wrote had to do with proposals to apply the standards of S 1698 to bank holding
companies as well as to banks themselves. Bank holding companies, subject to the Bank Holding Company Act of
1956, normally acquired banks through an acquisition of stocks; banks generally merged through an acquisition of
assets. Clark argued against such a move, saying: “It would be unwise to substitute the vague, uncertain standard
8/10/09 1:55 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 8http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal66-1300376&type=hitlist&num=0
assets. Clark argued against such a move, saying: “It would be unwise to substitute the vague, uncertain standard
of the Bank Merger Act of 1966 for the more clear criteria that have been articulated in the development of the
antitrust laws.”
Litigation
Federal prosecution of suits challenging bank mergers fell into three categories: the “pre-Philadelphia” suits, three in
number; the “post-Philadelphia” suits, also three in number; and the suits filed after passage of PL 89-356, the Bank
Merger Act of 1966. There were three cases in the last category.
The Act immunized the mergers in the “pre-Philadelphia” cases from further prosecution, except under Section 2,
the antimonopoly provision, of the Sherman Act. Those suits, filed before the June 17, 1963, Supreme Court
decision in U.S. v. Philadelphia National Bank, involved the mergers in New York City, Lexington, Ky., and Chicago.
The Justice Department attempted in 1966 to renew its attack on the Lexington merger under Section 2 of the
Sherman Act, but the trial court held that the merger was immune from attack under that section as well. (See
Background section, above.)
The “post-Philadelphia” suits were those filed after June 17, 1963, but before passage of the Act. The Act did not
immunize those from prosecution, but did say that the new standards of the Act would control disposition of the
cases. These suits attacked mergers in St. Louis (U.S. v. Mercantile Trust Co.), Nashville, Tenn. (U.S. v. Third
National Bank of Nashville) and Los Angeles and San Francisco (U.S. v. Crocker-Angelo National Bank).
A federal court dismissed the St. Louis case for the failure of the Government to plead its case under provisions of
the 1966 Act instead of under the antitrust laws alone. The Nashville case went to trial and the court found for the
defendant banks on the merits. The Los Angeles-San Francisco case, in an unusual development, was returned by
a three-judge federal district court to the Comptroller of the Currency for further findings. The court reasoned that
the Comptroller had approved the merger under provisions of the Bank Merger Act of 1960, but had not updated his
approval since passage of PL 89-356. The court requested him to do so.
New Suits
The first test of the Justice Department's interpretation of PL 89-356 began April 1 when the Department filed suit
for an injunction against the proposed merger of the Provident National Bank and the Central-Penn National Bank in
Philadelphia. Comptroller of the Currency James J. Saxon March 4 had approved the merger; the Federal Reserve
Board and the Department had opposed it. Saxon intervened in the suit, as PL 89-356 authorized him to do, and
moved to dismiss the suit on grounds that it had not been brought under PL 89-356 but under Section 7 of the
Clayton Act alone. Judge Thomas J. Clary of federal district court in Philadelphia accepted Saxon's reasoning and
Dec. 29 dismissed the suit. The Justice Department appealed the case, U.S. v. Provident National Bank to the
Supreme Court.
In a second case, the First City National Bank of Houston and the Southern National Bank agreed to merge in May,
Saxon approved the merger Sept. 20 and the Department filed suit Oct. 19, challenging the move as a violation of
Section 7 of the Clayton Act. Saxon objected, as he had in the Philadelphia case, and Judge Ben C. Connally of
federal district court in Houston Dec. 7 dismissed the suit. following the reasoning of Judge Clary. The Department
appealed the case, U.S. v. First City National Bank of Houston, to the Supreme Court.
The Court expedited the cases, noting probable jurisdiction to hear them in January 1967 and advancing the oral
argument to Feb. 21 on typewritten (instead of printed) records.
The issues in the two cases were procedural in nature but struck at the heart of the dispute between the
Comptroller and the Justice Department. The Department contended that, despite the 1966 Act, it had the power to
attack bank mergers under the anticompetitive standards of the antitrust laws alone. The banks and the Comptroller
argued that the suits had to conform to the 1966 Act. The key question was whether such a lawsuit was a
completely new trial on the merits, as the Department contended. or whether it was simply a review of the
Comptroller's decision, as the Comptroller contended. If the latter, the trial court would be limited to reviewing the
Comptroller's decision on the basis of whether or not he abused his powers to approve or disapprove a merger. The
1966 Act said the trial was to be a “review de novo,” but it did not define that term.
Beyond that procedural issue lay the more substantive problem of balancing of anticompetitive effects of a merger
with the needs of the banking industry and the community served. The 1966 Act directed bank regulatory agencies
to disapprove anticompetitive mergers unless the anticompetitive effects were “clearly outweighed” by the anticipated
benefits in “meeting the convenience and needs of the community.” The issue as presented to the Court was, did
the Department have to allege and prove that the anticompetitive effects were not outweighed by the expected
benefits to the community, or was it up to the defendant banks to prove as a defense that the expected benefits to
the community in fact outweighed the anticompetitive effects of the merger?
In any event, it appeared that a new bank arising out of the merger would not be exempt from the antitrust laws.
The Houston case involved the proposed acquisition of the city's sixth largest bank by its largest bank. The
Philadelphia case involved the proposed acquisition of the city's sixth largest bank by its fifth largest bank. If the
bank resulting from the merger was open to attack as violating the anticompetitive standards of the Clayton Act, it
appeared that proof that benefit to the community “clearly outweighed” the anticompetitive effect of the merger would
be more difficult.
8/10/09 1:55 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 8http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal66-1300376&type=hitlist&num=0
In the third case, U.S. v. First National Bank of Hawaii, filed by the Justice Department on June 10, the case was
set down for trial. The trial had not been held by the end of 1966.
Features
Bank Merger Provisions
The key provisions of the Bank Merger Act of 1960 (15 U.S.C. 1828(c)) and the 1966 amendments relating to
antitrust standards for bank mergers were as follows:
1960. “In the case of a merger, consolidation, acquisition of assets, or assumption of liabilities, the appropriate
agency shall also take into consideration the effect of the transaction on competition (including any tendency toward
monopoly), and shall not approve the transaction unless, after considering all of such factors, it finds the transaction
to be in the public interest.”
1966. “A merger transaction which tends to lessen competition may be approved where the probable adverse
competitive effect thereof is clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of such transaction in
meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served.”
Robertson Defeated in Primary
The alleged involvement of Sen. A. Willis Robertson (D Va.), chairman of the Senate Banking and Currency
Committee, and a 10-year veteran of the Senate, became an issue in his primary fight in July with William B. Spong
Jr. Spong won the primary election by 611 votes and went on to be elected to the Senate. (See stories p. 1394,
1387.)
Among the disclosures relating to Robertson and made by newspapers were: a letter from the chairman of the
Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. of New York City (exempted from further prosecution by S 1698) to the bank's
44,000 stockholders urging them to “thank” Robertson for his support of bank merger legislation; reports of coercion
by Virginia bank officials to get employees to wear Robertson buttons on the job and to display his bumper stickers;
a “suggested” quota by a leading banker that each of 40 Virginia banks raise $10 per $1 million of assets for
Robertson's campaign (which, if reached, would have brought in an estimated $50,000); Robertson's hiring of a
registered lobbyist for the banking industry, Charles Emmet Lucey, for his office staff; and the acknowledgement of
a Virginia banker's committee that it had raised $30,000 for his campaign.
Robertson said he did not know about the $30,000 or that Lucey was a lobbyist, but added that it did not surprise
him that bankers supported him since he knew more about banking than any other Senator or Representative.
Lucey told CQ that he had “advised” several banks, including Manufacturers Hanover Trust, on S 1698 but that he
did not lobby for the bill as such. (For background, see 1965 Almanac p. 855.)
Document Citation
"Bank Merger Law Revised." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal66-1300376. Originally published in
CQ Almanac 1966 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1967). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal66-1300376
(accessed August 10, 2009).
Document ID: cqal66-1300376
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal66-1300376
© 1967, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
