7/2/09 12:46 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal66-1300319&type=hitlist&num=0
Banking
1998 Congress Clears Legislation
Allowing Credit Unions To Expand
Membership
1995 House Shelves Banking Overhaul
1994 Other Banking Legislation
Considered in 1994
1994 Community Development Banking
Provisions
1994 Banking Law Undergoes Revision
1991 Congress Clears Slimmed-Down
Banking Bill
1991 Banking Nominations
1988 Caught in Turf Battle, Bank
Powers Bill Dies
1986 Major Banking Legislation Stalls
in Last Hours
1985 Banking Bills Fail to Reach House
Floor
1979 Banking Deregulation
1978 Electronic Banking Services
1978 Banking Regulation
1976 Banking Changes Blocked
1975 Senate Approves Broader Banking
Powers
1974 Citicorp Notes
1974 Banking Insurance, Credit Bill
Cleared
1970 Regulation Extended to One-
Bank Holding Companies
1969 Bank Holding Companies
1967 Truth-In-Lending Bill Passed by
Senate
1966 Bank Supervision
1966 Bank Holding Company Act
Exemptions Changed
1965 Bank Investigation
1957 Banking Revision
1955 Bank Companies
Antitrust
Federal Reserve
Savings and Loan Industry
Stock Market and Financial Services
S 3158 – Reported by Senate Banking
and Currency Committee (S Rept 1482)
Aug. 18, 1966.
S 3158 – Passed by voice vote of the
Senate Aug. 22, 1966.
HR 17899 – Reported by House Banking
and Currency Committee (H Rept 2077)
Sept. 24, 1966.
S 3158 – Passed, amended, by voice vote
of the House Oct. 4, 1966.
S 3158 – Conference report (H Rept
2232) agreed to by voice votes of the
House Oct. 12, 1966, and of the Senate
Oct. 13, 1966.
PL 89-695 – Signed into law Oct. 16,
1966.
Bank Supervision
An article from CQ Almanac 1966
Document Outline
Background
Senate
House
Conference
Features
Congress in 1966 followed up its 1965 hearings into bank failures by enacting
the Administration's Financial Institutions Supervisory Act of 1966. The Act
gave federal bank regulatory agencies temporary new powers to stop or
correct unsound financial practices. In addition, it raised from $10,000 to
$15,000 per account the amount of federal insurance on insured bank and
savings and loan accounts.
The heart of the Act was in its provisions empowering agencies to issue
cease-and-desist orders against unsound practices at financial institutions and
to remove bank and savings and loan association officials engaged in such
practices. A major addition to the Administration bill, made by the House
Banking and Currency Committee, was the increase in federal deposit
insurance; the House boosted the amount per account to $20,000, but that
figure was cut back to $15,000 in conference. In calling for the new
supervisory powers in his Jan. 27 Economic Message, the President also
urged raising the deposit insurance level, but he offered no specific proposal
and the bill contained none when introduced.
The bill applied to banks and savings and loan associations which either had
federal charters or federal insurance of deposits and savings left with them.
Existing law provided remedies for the financial problems which prompted the
legislation, but they were considered either too severe or too cumbersome or
time-consuming. The ultimate existing remedy–termination of federal
insurance–was a long process which normally could be expected to result in
collapse of the bank or association. In the meantime, losses to depositors
could continue.
The legislation had the
general support of the two
major groups representing
financial institutions, the
American Bankers Assn. and
the U.S. Savings and Loan
League. The Independent
Bankers Assn. of America
and the National League of
Insured Savings Assns. were
opposed. The legislation was
supported by the federal agencies involved.
Three provisions of the original proposal became relatively
controversial. The first dealt with the power of federal agencies to
remove bank officials engaged in unsound practices. Bankers
feared that these powers, if used arbitrarily, could result in severe
damage to the financial institution and to the reputation of the
individual banker concerned. The bill as enacted limited use of this
provision to matters involving the personal honesty of the banker.
The second controversy was over whether hearings held under the
Act should generally be public or private, with the agency given
discretion to rule otherwise in the public interest. The Senate bill
 
7/2/09 12:46 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal66-1300319&type=hitlist&num=0
discretion to rule otherwise in the public interest. The Senate bill
provided for private hearings; the House changed that to public
hearings; and the conference committee accepted the Senate
provision for private hearings.
The third controversy was over the power of the Comptroller of the Currency, acting on his own as an agency, to
remove officers or issue cease-and-desist orders in cases involving national banks. The Comptroller had supervisory
jurisdiction over these banks. The Senate Committee amended the original bill to vest this power in the Federal
Reserve Board, giving the Comptroller a vote on the Board in national bank cases. This was retained in the bill that
was enacted.
PROVISIONS – As signed into law, S 3158:
Agencies. Gave identical cease-and-desist and suspension-and-removal powers to the Federal Home Loan Bank
Board (FHLBB) and the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp. (FSLIC), in regard to federally chartered savings
and loan associations and federally insured state associations; to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System, in regard to national banks and to insured state banks which were members of the System; and to the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC), in regard to insured state banks which were not members of the Federal
Reserve System. Specified that in situations involving national banks, the Comptroller of the Currency of the
Treasury Department (who normally chartered and supervised national banks) would be a voting member of the
Federal Reserve Board in deciding cease-and-desist and suspension-and-removal cases.
Cease-and-Desist Orders. Authorized the agencies to issue temporary and permanent cease-and-desist orders
against banks and associations engaged in or about to engage in unsafe or unsound banking and financial
practices.
Removal of Officers. Authorized the agencies to issue suspension-and-removal orders against an officer, director
or employee of a bank or association if he violated a law; or if he engaged in an unsafe or unsound banking or
financial practice which would cause financial damage to his bank or any other bank (or association), or their
depositors; or if his act involved personal dishonesty. A person indicted or charged with a felony could be
suspended and, if convicted, removed.
State Action. Provided that in cases of cease-and-desist or removal proceedings involving state-chartered banks
and associations, federal officials first must notify state supervisory authorities and permit them to take corrective
steps before beginning federal action.
Hearing and Review. Provided that all hearings under the Act were to be private unless ordered otherwise by the
agency as in the public interest. Temporary orders could be stayed by federal district courts and permanent orders
were appealable to federal courts of appeals. Orders were to be set aside if unsupported by substantial evidence.
Deposit Insurance. Increased FDIC insurance on bank deposits and FSLIC insurance on savings and loan
accounts from the current $10,000 to $15,000 per account.
Savings and Loan Holding. Permitted holding companies to control more than one insured institution, provided the
FHLBB deemed it advisable in order to prevent a failure.
Savings and Loan Reporting. Provided for reporting changes in the control of insured savings and loan
associations to the FSLIC. (The requirements for and method of reported changes were similar to those provided in
a 1964 law–PL 88-593–for reporting changes in control of banks. See 1964 Almanac p. 596.)
Expiration Date. Specified that the authority granted by the bill to issue cease-and-desist orders and to suspend
and remove officers of financial institutions would expire June 30, 1972. Other provisions were permanent.
Background
President Johnson Jan. 27 in his annual Economic Message said that “appropriate” regulations were needed to
protect family savings and to assure “efficient and equitable regulation of financial institutions.” He recommended
financial legislation giving regulatory agencies a “wider range of effective enforcement remedies.” (See story p. 706;
text p. 1222.)
A bill (S 3158) was introduced in the Senate March 29 by A. Willis Robertson (D Va.), chairman of the Banking and
Currency Committee, at the request of the Treasury, the Federal Reserve Board, the Federal Home Loan Bank
Board and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Wallace F. Bennett (R Utah), ranking Committee Republican,
cosponsored the bill. In the House, Banking and Currency Committee Chairman Wright Patman (D Texas) Sept. 21
introduced HR 17899 which was similar to S 3158 as it had been passed by the Senate in August.
For several years, federal and private banking officials had discussed the central provisions of S 3158: authorizing
federal agencies to issue cease-and-desist orders against unsound banking practices and to remove bank and
savings and loan (S&L) institution officials engaged in unsound practices. Existing law generally provided only more
drastic remedies, such as termination of federal insurance, or time-consuming methods of correcting unsound
practices or removing bank officers.
In 1964, Congress enacted a law (PL 88-593) which required federally insured banks to report “promptly” changes
in control of voting stock or of loans secured by 25 percent or more of the bank's stock. That law reflected the
7/2/09 12:46 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal66-1300319&type=hitlist&num=0
in control of voting stock or of loans secured by 25 percent or more of the bank's stock. That law reflected the
growing concern with the entry into the banking field of persons seeking to use banks as a means of making quick
profits. (1964 Almanac p. 596)
House and Senate subcommittees in 1965 investigated the rising incidence of bank failures resulting from purchase
of banks by unscrupulous persons and the depletion of bank assets. During hearings, proposals similar to those
embodied in S 3158 were put forward. (1965 Almanac p. 1533)
Developments Leading to Legislation
Administration and industry sources said that the 1966 legislation was prompted by an increasing number of failures
of financial institutions and a reportedly substantial number of institutions with financial problems. A key problem
was with individuals who obtained control of a bank, through purchase of stock, and then used that bank as a
source of revenue. The use might take several forms: the cash could be drawn off in high salaries; assets could be
used to buy other banks or savings and loan institutions; loans could be made to friends or front organizations (for
example, an $800,000 loan to an accomplice who secures it with only $200,000 in property); cross-loans could be
made in which owner of Bank A makes a large, unsecured loan to owner of bank B in return for a similar loan and
both use the loans as ready cash with no intention of repaying them.
This “financial buccaneering,” as one federal official called it, had become more conspicuous in recent years,
although it was far from being characteristic of the banking industry.
Figures on bank failures in the February 1966 annual audit by the Comptroller General of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. (FDIC), which administers insurance of savings accounts in insured banks, showed that in the six
months ending Dec. 31, 1963, one insured bank failed; in the six months ending June 30, 1964, two banks failed; in
the six months ending Dec. 31, 1964, five banks failed, and in the four months ending April 30, 1965, five banks
failed. Between June 30, 1963, and April 30, 1965, a total of 13 banks failed–10 of them in the last 10 months of
that period. The FDIC estimated that its total insurance indemnity liability to depositors of the 13 banks would be
$39,518,000 while FDIC losses would run to $12,147,000. The biggest single insurance liability was to the Chatham
Bank of Chicago, which closed Aug. 23, 1963; the liability was $13,759,000.
For many years, bankers were concerned about unscrupulous activities in their industry on the theory that a key
asset of the industry was the confidence of the public. In addition, if banks could not trust one another in their
dealings, so often carried only on the books, then reckless actions by one threatened the soundness of others.
Their concern included so-called “problem banks,” which was an industry term for banks which were showing signs
of internal difficulty, whether through the avarice of their owners or through inept management. For the bank and its
depositors, the result often was the same.
The identities of “problem banks” constituted a well guarded secret in federal regulatory agencies, on grounds that
public confidence must not be undermined if the bank possibly can be saved. A description of the “problem bank”
picture came May 14 from Carter H. Golembe, deputy manager and secretary, state bank division, American
Bankers Assn. (ABA) in a speech before the South Dakota Bankers Assn. in Aberdeen, S.D. He cited FDIC data
submitted to Congress and said they showed that as of June 30, 1965, there were 199 insured (by the FDIC)
“problem banks” in the nation, holding deposits of $1.8 billion.
“Of these 199 banks,” he said, “37, with total deposits of $300 million, were listed as ‘serious problem banks' by the
FDIC, and of these 27 were state-chartered and 10 were national. Of the remaining 162 problem banks, holding
liabilities in excess of $1.5 billion, 153 were state-chartered and only nine were national. Of the total $1.8 billion of
deposits and other liabilities of problem banks, $1.6 billion was in state-chartered banks, and $200 million in national
banks.
The need for remedial legislation of the sort embodied in S 3158 had been realized by both federal agencies and
bankers for some time because of existing “overkill” provisions of federal banking law. Those provisions authorized
regulatory agencies to move in and close a bank when certain standards of conduct were breached, but they
offered few remedies short of that. Agencies could advise banks and S&Ls to mend their ways, but there was little
they could do to head off the “financial buccaneer.”
S 3158 sought to fill that void by authorizing agencies to issue cease-and-desist orders, immediately effective and
subject to hearing soon thereafter; to remove bank officers and directors, also subject to future hearing; and to
appoint conservators to operate a “problem bank” that has gone too far.
The 1966 controversy in Congressional consideration of S 3158 centered on the timing of the hearings–whether any
precipitate agency action should be authorized without hearing–and on the nature of offenses for which officers
might be removed. The U.S. Savings and Loan League generally endorsed both provisions but sought modifications
of the officer-removal provisions to limit removal to officers convicted of a felony involving a breach of trust and to
limit suspension to officers indicted for a felony involving a financial institution. As drafted, the bill authorized
removal of officers for “unsafe and “unsound” banking practices. (See testimony below.)
Senate
COMMITTEE – Senate Banking and Currency, Subcommittee on Financial Institutions.
HELD HEARINGS – April 4–May 19 on S 3158.
7/2/09 12:46 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal66-1300319&type=hitlist&num=0
TESTIMONY – April 4–John E. Horne, chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, said S 3158 was needed
to counter growing difficulties in the savings and loan industry, which had doubled in size every five years since
1945 and had begun to attract persons seeking “quick, short-run profits.” A decline in housing construction had put
a strain on profit-seeking groups, he said, and those “problem associations” had run up federally insured losses
estimated at $76 million in the previous three years. He said that while “problem associations” represented only
about 3 percent of all associations, Congress should act before the situation worsened.
Horne said existing law offered only “a choice between futility and seizure” of insured federal associations, and only
termination of insurance as to state-chartered institutions. Both remedies were drastic, he said. As of Dec. 31, 1965,
he said, there were 4,508 insured savings and loan associations in the nation, holding assets of more than $124
billion, including $106 billion in savings of 39 million accountholders. In 1965, he said, the savings and loan industry
made more than $23 billion in new mortgage loans, accounting for 43 percent of the financing of one- to four-family
dwellings.
April 5–J.L. Robertson, vice chairman of the board of governors of the Federal Reserve System, urged support of S
3158, saying that the System's current enforcement powers were “too severe and too cumbersome” for most cases.
The System currently could terminate a bank's membership in the System (resulting in the loss of its deposit
insurance) or remove a bank officer after lengthy proceedings. More prompt and less severe remedies were
needed, he said, and S 3158 provided them. He warned that banking was afflicted with greater risk-taking and
attracted “unscrupulous persons” who sought to purchase banks and then “ransack” them for profits.
Joseph W. Barr, Under Secretary of the Treasury, said S 3158 would “fill a gap” in federal regulatory powers but
would not increase those powers. He said its machinery would help cope with “dishonest or grossly negligent
management” of financial institutions.
K.A. Randall, chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, said that the “only ultimate corrective power”
his agency could take under existing law was to terminate the insured status of a bank, a “lengthy and time-
consuming proceeding.” He endorsed S 3158 as providing speedier and less severe remedies.
April 7–Lewellyn A. Jennings, spokesman for the American Bankers Assn., said the association was “in complete
agreement with” the desire of federal agencies to have new regulatory machinery. He warned that the provisions for
issuing cease-and-desist orders and for removal of bank officers, if used “unwisely,” could do “irreparable injury” to
the bank and person involved, and that S 3158 should not be read as superseding state banking laws.
April 12–Gareth W. Sadler, Savings and Loan Commissioner of California, urged prompt enactment of the bill,
saying that present federal regulatory powers were “too rigid and too harsh” in their remedies. He said that S&Ls in
California held assets of $26 billion, about one fifth of S&L assets in the nation.
April 14–William E. Nuesse, Commissioner of Banks in Wisconsin and president of the National Assn. of
Supervisors of State Banks (NASSB), opposed the superimposing of what he called “overlapping, largely
duplicatory, and perhaps unneeded federal powers over those now adequately enforced by state governments.” He
questioned the need for the legislation.
May 17–Lewellyn A. Jennings, supplementing his April 7 testimony on behalf of the American Bankers Assn. (ABA),
continued to support S 3158, but suggested modifications. He said that officer-removal or cease-and-desist orders
of the Comptroller of the Currency should be subject to review by the Federal Reserve Board. Further, the bill
should make clear that federal agencies would act only when state bank supervisory agencies failed to do so.
Edward L. Johnson, president of the Savings and Loan Financial Corporations, supported the bill, but suggested
that federal agencies be required to seek cease-and-desist orders from federal courts first, rather than issuing them
themselves.
May 18–Reed Albig, president of the McKees-port National Bank, McKeesport, Pa., and chairman of the federal
legislative committee of the Independent Bankers Assn. of America, said his association had 6,400 member banks.
He said it opposed S 3158 as imposing “unnecessary” federal control over the state banking system.
May 19–Three spokesmen for the National League of Insured Savings Assns. generally opposed the bill on grounds
that it would undermine the dual federal-state banking system.
Joseph T. Benedict, chairman of the Federal Savings and Loan Advisory Council and senior vice president of the
Worcester Federal Savings and Loan Assn. of Worcester, Mass., endorsed the bill, adding that the “importance of
the issue” led the Council to testify on behalf of the bill before the Subcommittee, the Council's first’ such
appearance before Congress.
Allan D. Housley, first vice president of the National Assn. of State Savings and Loan Supervisors, said his
organization could support the bill only if it were amended to safeguard controls already exercised by state
supervisory agencies.
W. O. Duvall, past president of the U.S. Savings and Loan League and board chairman of the Atlanta Federal
Savings and Loan Assn., said a committee of past presidents of the League had studied the need for more flexible
supervisory powers for the previous four years. He said the League endorsed the cease-and-desist orders provision
of the bill but questioned the scope of the officer-removal provisions. He suggested modifying those provisions to
limit removal to bank officers convicted of a felony involving breach of trust and to provide for immediate suspension
7/2/09 12:46 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal66-1300319&type=hitlist&num=0
limit removal to bank officers convicted of a felony involving breach of trust and to provide for immediate suspension
of an officer or director indicted for any felony involving a financial institution. As drafted, the bill provided for
removal of an officer for “unsafe” or “unsound” practices, and under such charges the officer might never regain his
reputation even if the charges proved groundless, Duvall said. He also said removal powers should include an
officer who knowingly and will-fully violated a valid cease-and-desist order where he was warned not to do so and
where the violation would cause substantial injury to his institution.
Bill Reported
The full Banking and Currency Committee Aug. 18 reported S 3158 (S Rept 1482) with an amendment which
replaced the text of the bill as introduced with new language. The Committee approved the substitute Aug. 16 by a
10–4 vote. Voting against the bill were Robertson and three Committee Republicans (see views, below).
Major Provisions. The bill gave the power to issue temporary and permanent cease-and-desist orders to the
federal agencies supervising banks and savings and loan associations: the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System (Fed), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board. The orders
could be issued against institutions which had violated a law or were engaged in or were reasonably expected to
engage in an unsafe or unsound practice. Temporary orders could be stayed by a federal district court and
permanent orders could be appealed to a federal court of appeals.
The bill authorized the issuance of suspension-and-removal orders against an officer, director or employee of a
bank or savings and loan association if the person violated a law or engaged in an unsafe or unsound practice and
there was or would be a loss to the institution and the act involved personal dishonesty. A person indicted or
charged with a felony could be suspended and, if convicted, removed. A suspension order could be stayed by a
district court and removal orders were appealable. Suspension-and-removal orders with respect to officers and
directors of national banks could be issued only by the Fed, but the Comptroller of the Currency was made a
member of the Fed in such cases with power to vote on the matter.
Changes in Administration Bill. The Committee limited conditions under which suspension-and-removal orders
could be issued to those involving personal honesty. It also added a provision requiring federal agencies to notify
state agencies before acting and to specify the time within which the state agency could act first. The Committee
added a provision which made conditions for suspension or removal of officers of national banks the same as for
officers of state banks and savings and loan associations. It also added an amendment authorizing only the Fed to
suspend or remove officers of national banks, but it gave the Comptroller a vote on the Fed in such cases. A further
amendment made all hearings under the Act private unless otherwise agreed to by the parties.
Committee Views. The Committee found in its hearings that the “great majority of banks and savings and loan
associations are soundly managed and operated.” It also found, however, that some banks had been the victims of
“careless or irresponsible individuals or, on extremely rare occasions, outright criminals.” S 3158 was intended to
give federal regulatory agencies new remedies for such situations, the Committee said, since experience had shown
that existing remedies often were too severe and too cumbersome for quick action. The Committee said it desired to
prevent abuses of the suspension-and-removal provivisions. An example of abuse, it said, would be a suspension
based on a difference of opinion over “the most debatable of management problems.” Thus, the Committee added
the provision requiring evidence of personal dishonesty. The Committee said it added the provision making the
Comptroller a member of the Fed for suspension-and-removal cases because it did not wish to entrust the
Comptroller, the only agency consisting of a single individual, with authority to issue such orders on his own.
Individual Views. Bourke B. Hickenhooper (R Iowa), Strom Thurmond (R S.C.) and John G. Tower (R Texas) said they
favored the bill without the provisions for issuing suspension-and-removal orders. They said there was wide
disagreement about what would constitute an offense justifying such action and the amendment adding the
requirement of evidence of personal dishonesty did not settle the controversy. They warned that “great harm can
accrue through improper use of statutory authority.”
Floor Action
The Senate Aug. 22 passed S 3158 by voice vote and sent it to the House.
The Senate passed the bill as it was reported in amended form by the Banking and Currency Committee.
William Proxmire (D Wis.) said that both powers in the bill–cease-and-desist and suspension-and-removal–were
necessary to give federal agencies a choice in remedies. If a question of personal honesty of a bank official was
involved, he said, the suspension-and-removal power would be appropriate. If bank management made an unsound
interpretation of a law or regulation, he said, then a cease-and-desist order would be appropriate. He said the
suspension-and-removal power was intended to be reserved “for the more extreme and flagrant cases,” those
involving “serious personal dishonesty.”
Committee Chairman A. Willis Robertson (D Va.) urged prompt approval of the bill and said that his earlier doubts
about the suspension-and-removal powers had been largely dispelled by the Committee's report. He said his major
concern had been that inclusion of the provision would have generated so much controversy that it would imperil the
rest of the bill.
House
7/2/09 12:46 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal66-1300319&type=hitlist&num=0
COMMITTEE – House Banking and Currency.
ACTION – Sept. 24 reported an Administration bill (HR 17899–H Rept 2077), with amendments. As introduced
Sept. 21 by Committee Chairman Wright Patman (D Texas), HR 17899 contained account protection provisions
identical to those in S 3158 as passed by the Senate.
Differences from Senate Bill. The provisions for cease-and-desist and suspension-and-removal orders in HR
17899, as reported, were similar to those in S 3158. The Committee added provisions that hearings on such orders
should be public (instead of private) unless otherwise ordered by the agency as in the public interest. It also
changed the rule for judicial review of agency orders, to require that the orders be set aside unless supported by the
“weight of the evidence” rather than by “substantial evidence.” The Committee provided for expiration of the new
regulatory powers on June 30, 1968.
HR 17899 contained a new provision increasing from $10,000 to $15,000 the amount of insurance on accounts and
deposits in institutions insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance
Corp Another new provision permitted holding companies to control more than one insured institution, provided the
Federal Home Loan Bank Board deemed it advisable in order to prevent a failure.
Committee Views. The report said that the cease-and-desist and suspension-and-removal powers were necessary
to “fill a gap” in federal regulatory powers. Federal agencies had the “ultimate authority” to stop unsafe practices,
the report said, by withdrawing an insured institution's insurance. But the lesser and more “flexible” powers in the bill
were needed to cope with less severe situations. The report said the change from “substantial evidence” was not
intended to permit courts to substitute their own judgment for that of the agency. An expiration date was set, the
report said, because of the “firm intention” of the Committee to consider permanent legislation in the 90th Congress
to “achieve maximum public benefit and security from insured financial institutions.”
The report said the exemption for holding companies was similar to the “failing company” exemption from antitrust
laws and was “strongly supported” by the FHLBB as being in the public interest.
The increase in FDIC insurance would be effective only with respect to claims accruing after the date of enactment,
the report said, and was a recognition of the “great advances in the personal income and savings of the American
people” since 1950, when the existing level was set.
Floor Action
The House Oct. 4 passed S 3158, amended, by voice vote.
Before passage, the House by voice votes passed its own similar bill (HR 17899) and then substituted its provisions
for those of S 3158 as passed by the Senate Aug. 22.
Both versions authorized federal bank regulatory agencies to issue cease-and-desist orders against banks and
suspension-and-removal orders against banking officers in instances of “unsafe or unsound” banking practices. The
Senate version, however, made this authority permanent, whereas the House bill established a cutoff date of June
30, 1968. In addition, the House version contained a provision increasing from the current $10,000 to $20,000 per
account the coverage of federal insurance on bank and savings and loan deposits.
Banking and Currency Committee Chairman Wright Patman (D Texas) Oct. 4 said the bill was “near the top of the
Administration's ‘must’ list for the remainder of the 89th Congress.” He said cease-and-desist and suspension-and-
removal powers would allow regulatory agencies to take less drastic steps than the existing “ultimate weapon” of
termination of federal insurance. The new, lesser powers would enable regulatory agencies to stop dangerous
practices and remove “any hoodlums that may be found bleeding our financial institutions” without resorting to
terminating insurance and thus closing the bank, he said.
Patman described a Committee provision increasing deposit insurance from $10,000 to $15,000 as “modest.” He
said that opposition of the American Bankers Assn. to the increase was “selfish” and based on concern that the
higher insurance would draw money to smaller banks and savings institutions and away from large commercial
banks.
The House accepted by voice vote an amendment offered by Leonor K. Sullivan (D Mo.) to increase deposit
insurance to $20,000, instead of $15,000 as proposed in the Committee bill. She said the higher limit was an
“expression of our confidence in the thrift industry” and would draw money to savings accounts, thus bolstering the
“prostrate” homebuilding industry which depended on such funds for mortgage money. Patman and William B. Widnall
(R N.J.), ranking minority member of the Committee, approved the change. Widnall said that federal insurance
agencies had made “projections showing that they would be well able to take care of” the $20,000 level.
Judiciary Committee Chairman Emanuel Celler (D N.Y.) objected to a committee amendment changing the standards
for judicial review of agency determinations on cease-and-desist and suspension-and-removal orders. The
Committee provided that federal courts must set aside such orders if they were found to be unsupported by the
“weight of the evidence.” Celler maintained that such a standard was too strict, it required the courts to review the
issues as if at a new trial and it used a different standard from that imposed on other reviews under the
Administrative Procedure Act. He urged rejection of the committee amendment and retention of the Senate language
of “substantial evidence.” Patman explained that the change was proposed by Abraham J. Multer (D N.Y.) and was
made “in the last 10 minutes of” Committee consideration of the bill, by a vote of 13–2 with nine members, including
7/2/09 12:46 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal66-1300319&type=hitlist&num=0
made “in the last 10 minutes of” Committee consideration of the bill, by a vote of 13–2 with nine members, including
himself, abstaining. Patman said he objected to the change and inserted in the Record an Oct. 3 letter from the
Treasury requesting retention of the Senate language. Multer defended it as a safeguard against rash agency
action. The House by a 21–51 standing vote rejected the committee amendment and left the Senate language
intact.
Also adopted by voice vote was an amendment proposed by Thomas L. Ashley (D Ohio) authorizing federal
insurance agencies to prevent circumvention of insurance limits by the use of multiple accounts in the same bank,
as where each of three persons held one account in his own name and one in the name of each of the other two.
Ashley said the amendment would not prevent a man and wife from holding one account each in his and her own
names and one joint account.
Amendments Accepted
Oct. 4–Leonor K. Sullivan (D Mo.)–Increase from $10,000 to $20,000 per account the amount of federal insurance on
insured deposits. Voice vote.
Thomas L. Ashley (D Ohio)–Authorize federal bank insurance corporations to prohibit use of multiple accounts in the
same institution to circumvent deposit insurance limits. Voice.
Abraham J. Multer (D N.Y.)–Specify that agency actions based on violation of written conditions be restricted to
conditions contained in agreements entered into by the bank and the agency. Voice.
Conference
Conference Report. House-Senate conferees Oct. 11 reached agreement on S 3158 after making three substantive
changes. The conference report (H Rept 2232 was filed the same day.
The report changed the termination date for the cease-and-desist and suspension-and-removal powers from June
30, 1968, as the House had provided, to June 30, 1972. The Senate had provided for no termination date.
The report increased from $10,000 to $15,000 the level of coverage of federal deposit insurance on insured bank
deposits. The Senate had provided for no increase in this insurance while the House had increased it to $20,000
per account.
The report also provided that hearings held in conjunction with issuing cease-and-desist or suspension-and-removal
orders would be private unless the regulatory agency, in its discretion, determined that public hearings were
necessary to protect the public interest. The Senate had provided for private hearings, but the House had reversed
those provisions to require public hearings unless the agency deemed private hearings necessary.
In addition, the conference report retained the Ashley and Multer floor amendments.
Action. The House Oct. 12 and the Senate Oct. 13 by voice votes adopted the conference report on S 3158. Rep.
Wright Patman (D Texas) said House conferees preferred “a shorter trial period,” but won assurances that
administration of the new powers would be “carefully” scrutinized by Congress.
Sen. A. Willis Robertson (D Va.) said Senate conferees “held strongly” for a permanent law, with no termination date,
but agreed to the 1972 cutoff as providing an adequate period in which to “gain experience” on operation of the new
powers.
Bill Signed. President Johnson signed S 3158 into law Oct. 16 (PL 89-695).
Features
Congress Dealt with Many Banking Issues in 1966
Congress was concerned with numerous pieces of banking legislation and related banking issues during 1966.
Enactment of legislation (S 3158) giving federal officials new authority to prevent unsound financial practices by
banks and savings and loan associations was one of the important accomplishments of the year. (See
accompanying story.)
Another major bill that was enacted (HR 14026) gave federal banking officials temporary power to set different limits
on the interest rates which banks and other financial institutions could pay on time deposits. The bill was intended to
halt a “rate war” between banks and savings and loans associations that was hurting the associations. The same bill
also gave officials the power to control the interest rates that associations could pay on regular savings accounts.
(See story p. 753.)
Congress also enacted a bill (S 1698) establishing new standards for consideration of bank mergers by federal bank
regulatory agencies and the courts. The legislation grew out of several controversial bank mergers and Supreme
Court decisions overturning them. (See story p. 767.)
Another bill (HR 7371) repealed two major exemptions of the 1956 Bank Holding Company Act, those applying to
long-term trusts and to certain investment companies. (See story p. 762.)
7/2/09 12:46 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal66-1300319&type=hitlist&num=0
Congress took no action on several other proposals made by the President in his Economic Message. One was to
provide specific statutory safeguards against conflict of interests in the management of banks and savings and loan
institutions. A second request was to enact “new statutory provisions dealing with savings and loan holding
companies.” A third request was for federal chartering of mutual savings banks: this proposal was embodied in a bill
(HR 11508). The House Banking and Currency Subcommittee on Bank Supervision and Insurance held hearings
on the bill and reported it to the full Committee on May 4, but the Committee took no action.
The House Banking and Currency Committee May 10 reported an amended bill (HR 12904–H Rept 1510) to remove
the Comptroller of the Currency as an ex officio member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. (FDIC) and to change the composition of that board from two to three members appointed by the President
with the advice and consent of the Senate. The report said the Comptroller, who supervised national banks, “should
no longer serve” on the board, which oversaw state nonmember insured banks. The Comptroller and the chairman
of the FDIC board supported the bill. The bill remained in the Rules Committee. Rep. Abraham J. Multer (D N.Y.), a
Banking Committee member, introduced the bill Feb. 17.
Reports on 1965 investigations
Congress received three reports on investigations into banking practices made in 1965.
House. The House Banking and Currency Subcommittee on Domestic Finance Feb. 21 issued a staff report on its
investigation into the 1964 failure of the Crown Savings Bank of Newport News, Va. The report found that one
cause of the failure was a “lack of coordination and communication among bank supervisory agencies; it called for
consolidation of three federal agencies–the Comptroller, the Federal Reserve and the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp.–into a single, more efficient agency. (For hearings, see 1965 Almanac p. 1538.)
The Subcommittee March 22 issued a subcommittee print on results of a staff survey of auditing procedures of
13,493 banks, of which 10,362 responded to questionnaires. The report said that 96 percent of responding banks
had no “annual unqualified independent audits” from 1960 through 1964; that about 90 percent of those banks used
no independent public accountants for audits unrestricted in scope and time; that as of June 30, 1965, “only 24
problem banks” out of 180 had annual independent audits; that banks generally distributed results of independent
audits to “relatively few” stockholders.
Senate. The Senate Government Operations Subcommittee on Permanent Investigations April 13 issued an interim
report (S Rept 1108), which was critical of the operations of the San Francisco National Bank, the Brighton (Colo.)
National Bank and the First National Bank of Marlin, Texas, among others, all three of which failed. The report
criticized Comptroller of the Currency James J. Saxon for his “failure” to notify other federal agencies that the San
Francisco bank was in “dire straits.” (1965 Almanac p. 1534)
Bank Study Dispute Settled
The House Banking and Currency Committee June 9 settled a dispute over the power of Chairman Wright Patman (D
Texas) to issue subpenas to banking institutions which required production of information as to their true ownership.
The Committee adopted a compromise proposed by Rep. Charles L. Weltner (D Ga.) that invalidated 94 subpenas
already issued but authorized Patman to continue his investigation and issue new subpenas.
On April 6, 1965, the Subcommittee on Domestic Finance had authorized a general investigation of the ownership
of commercial banks. After that, Patman, who was chairman of the Subcommittee, had sent questionnaires to about
4,000 banks and other institutions and received about 1,700 replies. In a June 7 press release, Patman said that in
94 other cases, he had issued subpenas to obtain replies, and in about half of these cases the subpenas had been
requested by the organizations involved, for their own protection. Patman said the Subcommittee May 26 adopted
by a 7–4 vote a resolution which “reconfirmed” his authority to conduct the investigation and to issue subpenas.
The June 9 meeting was called at the request of 17 members (all 11 Republicans, six Democrats) of the 33-
member Committee. Rep. Tom S. Gettys (D S.C.) charged that although the Subcommittee had authorized the
general investigation, it had not authorized Patman to issue subpenas. Other Subcommittee members disagreed.
Rep. Thomas L. Ashley (D Ohio), a member of the full Committee, said Patman was attempting to “blackjack” banks
into producing information by issuing “invalid” subpenas.
Takeover of a Bank
The Comptroller General's February 1966 audit of the FDIC gave this account of a bank takeover:
Two individuals, one with a criminal record, borrowed $225,000 on a pledge of stock in a bank they sought to buy;
they raised $50,000 on their own and bought out the target bank's majority stockholder for $275,000, about twice
the book value of the stock. They made the purchase through a newly created corporation and a “front man.”
Now in control of the target bank, they raised $1 million by issuing certificates of deposit; they used most of that
money to buy real estate mortgage notes of face value of $968,000 but worth only half that amount. They paid
$756,500 for the mortgage notes but sold them to their own bank for $945,500, pocketing the difference of
$189,000. On a $50,000 investment, the two individuals realized $139,000 net profit. The bank failed.
7/2/09 12:46 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 9 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal66-1300319&type=hitlist&num=0
Document Citation
"Bank Supervision." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal66-1300319. Originally published in CQ
Almanac 1966 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1967). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal66-1300319 (accessed
July 2, 2009).
Document ID: cqal66-1300319
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal66-1300319
© 1967, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
