7/2/09 12:44 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 8http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal66-1300331&type=hitlist&num=0
Savings and Loan Industry
1996 GOP Wins Passage of Banking Bill
1995 Plan to Bolster Thrift Fund Dies
1993 Thrift Cleanup Financing
Provisions
1993 Hill Votes More Funds for Thrift
Bailout
1992 S&L Bailout Funding Dries Up
1991 Thrift Bailout Fund Replenished
Twice
1990 Bill To Add Thrift Bailout Funds
Dies
1989 Sweeping Thrift Bailout Bill
Cleared
1989 Lincoln Savings Scandal Examined
in Hearings
1988 Thrift Crisis Debated, but Little
Action Taken
1987 Fears About S&L Insurance Fund
Spur Rescue
1982 Savings and Loan Aid, Banking
Law Changes
1981 Aid for Savings & Loans
1980 Savings and Loan Takeovers
1973 Interest On Savings Deposits
1967 S & L Holding Companies
1967 Federal Savings Banks
1966 Interest Rates on Deposits at
Banks Limited
1954 Savings, Loan Branches
Banking
Congressional Ethics
HR 14026 – Reported by House Banking
and Currency Committee (H Rept 1777)
July 28, 1966.
HR 14026 – Passed, amended, by a 271–
68 roll-call vote of the House Sept. 8,
1966. (For vote chart, see p. 914.)
HR 14026 – Reported by Senate Banking
and Currency Committee (S Rept 1601)
Sept. 14, 1966.
HR 14026 – Passed by voice vote of the
Senate Sept. 15, 1966.
PL 89-597 – Signed into law Sept. 21,
1966.
Interest Rates  on Deposits  at Banks
Limited
An article from CQ Almanac 1966
Document Outline
Rates  Established
Provisions
Background
House
Senate
Features
Congress in 1966 enacted an Administration-backed bill (HR 14026) giving
flexible authority to federal bank regulatory agencies to set different limits on
the interest rates  banks and other financial institutions could pay on
different types and amounts of fixed maturity (time) deposits .
The purpose of the bill was to protect savings and loan associations (S & Ls),
traditional source of financing for home building, from the competition of high-
interest  certificates of deposit (CDs) issued by commercial banks. (See
box for explanation of CDs.)
The banks, in order to acquire funds to meet a high demand for industrial and
consumer loans, had begun to offer the certificates in sizes far smaller than
had been done in the past and at interest rates  higher than S&Ls could
afford to pay. The result was that persons with relatively small amounts of
money to invest (such as, for instance, a family attempting to put aside some
money for future use or for an emergency) were taking their funds out of
S&Ls (or not going there in the first place) and instead buying small
denomination CDs from banks. This in turn limited funds available to S&Ls
and dried up the major source of home financing; a sharp downturn in
housing industry activity was one of the most prominent imbalances in the
economy during 1966. The shortage of funds for S&Ls, banks, the housing
industry and most other groups and organizations in the nation was the result
of extremely tight monetary conditions put into effect to reduce inflationary
pressures throughout the economy. (See story p. 702.)
The “rate war” for savings arose because existing law required
federal authorities to set a single general limit on time deposits
, with variations permitted only with respect to differing maturities
and other related factors. Thus, when banks began offering the
CDs in low denominations, authorities could reduce their
attractiveness only by lowering the rates  on time deposits
across the board. Because this would have included large
denomination CDs, an obligation bought in substantial quantities by
major corporations, it would have diminished a major source of
funds available to banks for lending.
Although the authority provided by the bill applied only to the 
rates  on deposits  left with financial institutions, and not
loans by the institutions, some backers of the measure contended it
would result in reduction of loan rates  as well. If banks were
required to reduce rates  on deposits , they reasoned, their
lower costs in obtaining money would be reflected in lower rates
 on loans. This contention was disputed by financial experts,
however, who feared the lower rates  on time deposits
might drive funds into higher-yield securities or bonds. This, they
said, would keep loan rates  high and force banks to curtail
 
7/2/09 12:44 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 8http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal66-1300331&type=hitlist&num=0
said, would keep loan rates  high and force banks to curtail
lending.
The discretionary rate controls authorized by HR 14026 were to expire one year after the bill's enactment. Agencies
given the new powers were the Federal Reserve Board (Fed), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC) and the
Federal Home Loan Bank Board (FHLBB). Together, the three agencies regulated all banks and savings and loan
institutions insured by the Federal Government.
Another major provision of the bill gave the FHLBB authority for the first time directly to establish interest  and
dividend rates  which savings and loan institutions could pay their depositors. This authority applied to general
savings accounts, as opposed to the CDs–that is, time deposit savings–discussed above. The FHLBB had long
sought to obtain this authority over S&L interest rates  on general savings accounts. (Federal bank regulatory
officials already had this authority over insured commercial banks.) However, this new power of the FHLBB, like the
other provisions of HR 14026, was to expire after one year unless extended. FHLBB officials said they would seek
to have it extended.
Other provisions of HR 14026 increased the reserves which the Fed could require member banks to hold against
time deposits , and enlarged the types of Government securities the Fed could buy and sell. The reserves
provision (not subsequently implemented) was designed to make CD purchases even less attractive, while the
authority to deal in a broadened portfolio of securities was designed to enlarge the Fed's role in economic
management by moving funds in and out of sensitive areas of the economy.
Congressional debate on HR 14026 centered on whether to legislate a rate ceiling on low-denomination CDs or
make the rates  discretionary with federal banking officials. The version of the bill reported by the House
Banking and Currency Committee set a 4.5 percent ceiling on CDs of less than $100,000, while requiring the rate to
remain at 5.5 percent for CDs of higher denominations. This approach was defeated on the House floor, however,
after the Administration contended it would infringe on the powers of the independent Federal Reserve Board. After
brief consideration, the Senate adopted without change the discretionary controls approved by the House.
Rates  Established
Immediately following enactment of HR 14026, federal bank regulatory agencies acted to stem the rate competition.
The Federal Reserve Board and FDIC Sept. 21 established a ceiling of 5 percent on the interest  rate that
banks under their jurisdiction could pay on time deposits  of less than $100,000. The Federal Home Loan Bank
Board the same day set a sliding scale of ceilings, ranging from 4.75 to 5.25 percent, on interest  that might be
paid at savings and loan institutions. The moves increased the ability of the S&Ls to make home loans, but did not
significantly affect the structure of bank and S&L interest rates .
Provisions
As signed into law, HR 14026 (PL 89-597) contained the following major provisions:
Authorized the Federal Reserve Board (Fed) at its discretion to establish different interest  rate ceilings for
different types and amounts of time and savings deposits  held by banks in the Federal Reserve System. (The
provision covered savings accounts, as well as time deposits , although savings were not part of the
controversy.)
Authorized the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC) the same discretionary rate-making authority for the
commercial banks and mutual savings banks under its jurisdiction as was authorized for the Federal Reserve Board.
(The FDIC supervised all insured state banks and mutual savings institutions not in the Federal Reserve System.)
Authorized the Federal Home Loan Bank Board (FHLBB) to establish limits on the rate of interest  or dividends
paid by insured savings and loan institutions on deposits , shares or withdrawable accounts. Permitted different 
rates  for different types and amounts of deposits .
Prohibited any of the three agencies charged with rate-making authority on time and savings deposits  (Fed,
FDIC, FHLBB) from setting new interest  ceilings without first consulting the other two agencies.
Raised from the existing 6 percent to 10 percent the maximum reserves that the Federal Reserve could require
member banks to hold against time or savings deposits . (The provision did not affect the reserve ratio for
demand deposits , which remained at a maximum of 22 percent for major banks in large cities and 14 percent
for other banks.)
Deleted a provision of existing law stipulating that the Fed's authority to modify reserve requirements was based on
prevention of “injurious credit expansion and contraction.” (Deletion of the phrase negated the suggestion that the
provision prohibited a change in reserve requirements to promote a shift in the pattern of bank deposits  and
assets, as contrasted to expansion or contraction in the volume of credit.)
Extended the range of government securities that the Fed was empowered to buy and sell in the open market to
include all obligations issued or guaranteed by any federal agency. (Existing law prohibited Fed purchase and sale
of numerous major issues, including those of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board and Federal National Mortgage
7/2/09 12:44 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 8http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal66-1300331&type=hitlist&num=0
of numerous major issues, including those of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board and Federal National Mortgage
Assn. (FNMA). The provision was designed to allow the Fed to pump in and take away substantial funds from
various sectors of the economy, depending upon economic conditions.)
Included a nonbinding sense-of-Congress resolution directing the Secretary of the Treasury, the Federal Reserve
Board, the FDIC, and the FHLBB to implement their powers under existing law to bring about a reduction in 
interest rates  to the “maximum extent feasible in the light of the prevailing money market and general economic
conditions.”
Specified that all provisions would be effective on the date the bill was signed and would expire one year later.
Background
The Federal Reserve Board throughout 1966 maintained an extremely tight policy of credit restraint in an effort to
reduce inflationary pressures. The new policy began Dec. 5, 1965, when the Fed announced a one-half percent
increase–from 4 to 4.5 percent–in the Federal Reserve's discount rate–the rate it charges for loans to commercial
banks in the System. At the same time, the Fed announced its intention to cut back on the amount of funds made
available to banks for loans.
Despite the Fed's move, designed to increase interest rates , a high demand for loan funds prevailed throughout
1966. Consequently, banks and savings and loan institutions began competing vigorously for the savings dollar–a
major source of lendable funds.
The focus of the battle became the certificate of deposit, a short-term obligation formerly issued mainly in large
denominations to corporate purchasers. To lure funds away from the S&Ls, banks began offering 30-day. 5.5
percent CDs in denominations as low as $20 or $25. The rate contrasted with a 4.25 or 4.5 percent rate the saver
might expect to earn from a typical passbook savings and loan account. Despite attempts by S&Ls to raise their 
rates  beyond levels they could afford, considerable amounts of money began to shift from S&L deposits  into
CDs.
By mid-year it was apparent that only legislative action could bring the rate war to a close. In the month of July
1966 alone, the S&Ls lost net withdrawals of $1.5 billion, as compared with withdrawals of $434 million for July
1965. For the entire year S&Ls recorded a new inflow of $3.7 billion, down substantially from the $8.4 billion
recorded in 1965. (See charts p. 812, 813.)
House
COMMITTEE – Banking and Currency.
HELD HEARINGS – May 9–June 23 on two bills (HR 14026, HR 14422) providing new regulations regarding bank
time deposits . HR 14026, introduced March 28 by Committee Chairman Wright Patman (D Texas), prohibited
insured commercial banks from issuing any negotiable certificates of deposit (i.e., those that could be readily
exchanged). HR 14422, introduced April 7 by Richard L. Ottinger (D N.Y.), prohibited acceptance by commercial
banks of time deposits  in amounts less than $15,000.
TESTIMONY – May 9–Norman Strunk, executive vice president of the U.S. Savings and Loan League, representing
more than 5,000 savings and loan associations, said that issuance of CDs by commercial banks was siphoning off 
deposits  which otherwise would have gone to S&Ls. He said that in the first three months of 1966 the net
increase in savings deposits  in S&Ls was about $1.3 billion compared with $1.9 billion in 1965 and as high as
$3 billion in the first quarter of 1963. S&Ls would make mortgage loans of $11 billion in the last eight months of
1966, compared with $17 billion in the same period in 1965, he said, adding that at an average of $20,000 per loan,
the difference of 86 billion meant mortgages on 300,000 homes. He said that “inflation psychology” as well as the
CD effect was a reason for the decline in S&L deposits . Strunk suggested fixing the maturity date for CDs and
not permitting shorter maturity at a lower interest  rate, banning automatic renewals of CDs and prohibiting
misleading CD promotional advertising, such as “25 percent interest ” meaning 5-percent interest  for five
years.
May 11–John E. Horne, chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, described the shift in savings flow as
promising to “cut mortgage availability to intolerably low levels.” He said the Board was “not complaining about
competition. We recognize, too, that if a shift in funds is desired by the market place, it should be accommodated,
but we cannot help wondering whether we do not have an artificial device on our hands,” referring to CDs. He
suggested that Congress grant authority to federal regulatory agencies to set a minimum amount on CDs and time
deposit open accounts.
Administration Statement
Henry H. Fowler, Secretary of the Treasury, opposed both HR 14026 and HR 14422 as too inflexible and suggested
instead dual ceiling rates  for interest  in order to get through a “transition” period in rate competition. He
proposed authority, on a temporary basis, to set different rate ceilings on time deposits  up to $10,000; for larger
desposits, the same rate would be paid on the first $10,000, the amount covered by federal deposit insurance, while
the rate on the balance would be set by the Federal Reserve Board. The current interest  rate on deposits
7/2/09 12:44 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 8http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal66-1300331&type=hitlist&num=0
the rate on the balance would be set by the Federal Reserve Board. The current interest  rate on deposits
of $10,000 or less should be 5 percent, he said, while amounts above the $10,000 figure would be subject to the
current 5.5 percent ceiling.
May 24–J. L. Robertson, vice chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, said that HR
14026 and HR 14422 were “efforts to circumscribe competitive processes in ways that are harmful to the public 
interest .” He said the Board of Governors saw “no justification for a general prohibition” of the kind contained in
HR 14026 and said that HR 14422 would “deny to banks the use of an instrument employed for many years in
attracting savings of individuals.”
May 31–James J. Saxon, Comptroller of the Currency, opposed both bills as imposing “even more controls and
greater rigidity” on banking when, on the contrary, greater competition in interest rates  was desirable. He said
that Regulation Q, under which the Federal Reserve Board set maximum interest rates  for time and savings 
deposits  in commercial banks, was at fault and should be eliminated. Saxon said that until 1962, for example,
commercial banks were at a “serious disadvantage” in being limited to a 3-percent interest  ceiling, while S&Ls
paid up to 4 percent. In the past four years, he said, commercial banks operated under less restrictive ceilings and
were attracting money, a development which led the S&Ls to complain.
June 2–K.A. Randall, chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC), warned that the restrictive effects of
HR 14026 and HR 14422 might injure small banks which depended heavily on use of CDs and had done so for
many years, particularly in the Midwest. He said there was no “crisis” in the financial system of the nation and that
none was in the offing. To curb current use of high- interest  CDs by commercial banks, however, he suggested
giving federal banking agencies discretionary power for one year to set maximum interest rates  below the
current 5.5 percent on time deposits  for any time deposit or CD of less than $100,000. He said this plan was
essentially the same as that of Treasury Secretary Fowler but that the “cutoff” point should be “at least $100,000”
instead of $10,000 as under the Fowler plan. Randall also said one federal agency should be empowered to set
maximum interest rates  for all financial institutions instead of following the current statutory approach of having
different agencies regulate banks, S&Ls and other institutions. That, he said, would eliminate the current differences
in interest  ceilings set by the various agencies.
ABA Opposed Legislation
William G. Kirchner, president of the Richfield Bank and Trust Co., Richfield, Minn., and a member of the bank
management committee of the American Bankers Assn. (ABA), said the ABA strongly opposed both bills. He said
HR 14026 would lead to a “devastating crisis” in the money market and that current developments showed that the
use of CDs was sending money where it was needed in the economy. He said that HR 14422 would harm
“thousands of small commercial banks” in the nation as funds were attracted to S&Ls and to the larger banks in
cities which offered higher interest rates . The small banks depended on small time deposits , he said, for
much of their funds. Kirchner said the ABA took the position that Congress should defer action until interest
rate studies undertaken nationwide by the FDIC and the Federal Reserve Board were completed.
June 7–Joseph W. Barr, Under Secretary of the Treasury, urged the Committee to view the “matter as one of rate
sensitivity and not one of weakened confidence in the soundness of our financial institutions.” Volatile, interest -
sensitive money was moving to commercial banks and market instruments, he said, but legislative responses should
be limited and temporary. He said the Treasury Department still believed that an interest  ceiling rate of 5
percent on smaller time accounts was advisable, but he said it would “enter no objection” to prescribing that rate for 
deposits  between $25,000 and $100,000, rather than limiting it to deposits  of $10,000 or less as the
Department previously had suggested. A lower ceiling of 4.5 percent, he said, would penalize small savers. He said
legislation setting ceiling rates  should expire in one or two years after enactment.
June 8–William McChesney Martin Jr., chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, said
there were “mounting signs of unusual tightness in the mortgage market” and that Congress was “fully justified in
taking action to provide a cushion against too sharp a cutback in residential construction.” He said that while the
Fed viewed competition for the saver's dollar as beneficial in the long run, it could create “adjustment problems” in
the short run. He said that temporary responses, therefore, were preferable, and endorsed the move of the Federal
Home Loan Bank Board to relax liquidity requirements for S&Ls and the proposal to increase funds available to the
Federal National Mortgage Assn. (FNMA). He said the Fed would “welcome” authority to specify ceiling rates  on
and reserves held against commercial bank time deposits , using those powers as a “tool” of monetary policy.
He suggested a statutory range of 3 to 10 percent within which the Fed could set required reserves for time 
deposits  other than passbook savings. He emphasized, however, that such a move should give the Fed discretion
to change requirements rather than fixing those requirements rigidly by law.
Martin said that determination of rate ceilings and differentials in rates  on time deposits  should be left to
“administrative discretion, thereby permitting adaptation of the ceilings to changing circumstances.” He said that a
rate ceiling of 4.5 percent for CDs smaller than $100,000 was “far below rates  currently available on the money
market for such risk-free instruments as U.S. Government and U.S. agency obligations” and would threaten
availability of funds to persons dependent on the banking industry for financing.
Committee Stalemate
The Committee June 23, unable to settle on a bill, adopted by a 14–5 vote a resolution calling on the Fed to act
within 30 days to “forestall the threatened rate war” between commercial banks and savings and loan institutions.
7/2/09 12:44 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 8http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal66-1300331&type=hitlist&num=0
within 30 days to “forestall the threatened rate war” between commercial banks and savings and loan institutions.
The resolution, which had no force of law, urged the Fed to “take action” but did not specify what measures should
be taken. Patman said the Committee would take “positive and vigorous action” if the Fed failed to take “satisfactory
steps.”
Changes in Administration Position
The Administration, whose shifting position was indicated in the testimony of Fowler and Barr, shifted again
following the committee stalemate. Fowler, in a July 13 letter expanding upon his previous testimony, urged
enactment of a bill establishing a temporary ceiling on interest rates  payable on CDs and other time deposits
 of up to $100,000. The Fowler letter was directed to Rep. Al Ullman (D Ore.), who had written the President
asking for action to curb the savings rate war.
Two days after Fowler's letter was published, the Fed reduced interest rates  on multiple maturity CSs of 90
days or more from 5.5 percent to 5 percent, and set a ceiling of 4 percent on those maturing in less than 90 days.
The action, effective July 20, did not change ceilings on time deposits  having a single maturity, previously set
in December 1965 at 5.5 percent. Thus, a distinction was drawn between the single maturity CD and the multiple
maturity CD, which offered a purchaser earlier redemption if he desired.
Bill Reported
The Committee July 28 reported an amended version of HR 14026 (H Rept 1777) dropping the provision prohibiting
the issuance of negotiable CDs and providing instead for temporary interest  ceilings on all time deposits  in
insured banks (including both negotiable and nonnegotiable CDs) and for an overhaul of existing statutes regarding
savings and share accounts. The Committee July 25 approved the amended measure by a 19–9 vote.
Major Provisions. HR 14026, as reported, set temporary ceilings on all time deposits  in banks whose 
deposits  were insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC). The FDIC currently insured deposits
held in 13,547 of the nation's commercial banks. The existing maximum interest  payable on all single maturity,
30-day or longer time deposits  was 5.5 percent. HR 14026, as reported, established a 4.5-percent ceiling on 
deposits  of less than $100,000 and retained the 5.5-percent rate on time deposits  of $100,000 or more. Both
rates  were to remain in effect until Aug. 1, 1967, unless the President approved a higher rate.
HR 14026 also authorized the Federal Home Loan Bank Board (FHLBB) for the first time to regulate the rates
of interest  or dividends paid by institutions insured by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp. The Bank
Board currently supervised savings and loan institutions, while the insurance corporation, an agency of the Bank
Board, insured savings accounts in S&Ls. The authority to regulate rates  of interest  also was to expire
Aug. 1, 1967.
HR 14026 raised from 6 to 10 percent the maximum amounts that the Federal Reserve Board could require
member banks to hold as a reserve against time and savings deposits . The bill did not change the reserve ratio
for demand deposits , however, which had a current maximum of 22 percent.
The bill also allowed the Federal Reserve Board, on request of the Treasury Department, to buy obligations issued
by the FHLBB and the Federal National Mortgage Assn. in order to provide fresh money for those agencies to pump
into the mortgage market.
A final section of the bill provided that any agency with authority to regulate interest rates  or dividends on time 
deposits  or savings accounts must consult with, and request written views of, the other agencies and the
Secretary of the Treasury before making any change in such regulations. Further, any department or agency
authorized to purchase or sell any security was required to consult with and request the written views of the
Secretary of the Treasury and the Federal Reserve Board before offering to purchase or sell such security. This
provision, the report noted, would “serve to formalize and improve coordination in the financial operations of
Government agencies.”
Majority Views. The Committee noted that the increased interest rates  since December 1965 had encouraged
banks to compete aggressively for time deposits , thereby setting off a “rate war” to the detriment of thrift
institutions and smaller banks. This action, the report said, had caused substantial outflows of funds from the thrift
institutions, long a primary source of mortgage funds. It was noted that in the first six months of 1966 mortgage
portfolios rose by $3,257,000,000, down 26 percent from $4,420,000,000 in 1965. Because of this trend, the
Committee “strongly believes that interest rates  should again be held to reasonable limits, and not allowed to
increase at current unprecedented rates .”
Dissenting Views. Reps. Robert G. Stephens Jr. (D Ga.), Charles L. Weltner (D Ga.) and Paul H. Todd Jr. (D Mich.)
filed dissenting views. “Although HR 14026 as amended seeks laudatory objectives,” the three said “it is highly
questionable that this legislation will accomplish this end.” “The Congress is not equipped to perform” the function of
allocating funds within the market place, “nor basically do we believe, should the Congress attempt to allocate funds.
Congress' obligation should be to assure competition, not eliminate it.”
Minority Views. All 11 Republicans on the Committee labeled the bill a “misguided exercise in futility.” They said
there are those who for years “have sought to undermine the independence of the Federal Reserve System. They
will support the bill. They will see in it a foot-in-the-door approach to political domination of our monetary system.
7/2/09 12:44 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 8http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal66-1300331&type=hitlist&num=0
Administration Reaction
The Administration July 27 announced its support for all provisions of the committee bill except the temporary 
interest  ceilings on time deposits . The Administration's position was made known in a statement by Robert
C. Weaver, Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, to the National Assn. of Home
Builders, which was meeting in Washington, D.C., in an “emergency” session to discuss the shortage of mortgage
money brought on by the rate war. In lieu of the temporary ceilings, which had previously been sought by the
Treasury, Weaver said the Administration would seek discretionary powers for the Fed and other agencies to set
different rates  for different types of time deposits .
Evidence of why the Administration altered its position on statutory ceilings came from two quarters. Peter D.
Sternlight, Deputy Under Secretary of the Treasury for Monetary Affairs, July 27 told reporters that the
Administration changed its attitude after the Fed had “shown a willingness to act.” The second indication came Aug.
2, when Secretary Fowler wrote Sen. A. Willis Robertson (D Va.), chairman of the Senate Banking and Currency
Committee, saying he now believed “it is possible to return to the idea of granting discretionary authority to the bank
regulating agencies, rather than involving Congress in legislating interest rates .” Fowler told Robertson the Fed
had shown “a willingness…to take action to limit undue rate competition.”
Patman Aug. 5 blamed pressure from the Fed for Fowler's shift in policy. Patman said he could not go along with
legislation that would leave rate ceilings to the Fed's discretion. “I am gravely disappointed by the Treasury
Department's unwillingness to make a real fight for lower interest rates …. Certainly I recognize your right to
change your mind. But I must remind you that the confusion created by these rapid changes in Treasury…policy
make the job of solving the interest  rate crisis even more difficult.”
Other Reaction. Support for HR 14026 came from the Independent Bankers Assn., the National Assn. of Home
Builders and consumer and labor groups. Following Committee approval July 25, Larry Blackmon, president of the
home builders, wrote Patman, saying the home building industry “urgently needs the legislative relief which would
be provided by this legislation.”
Floor Action
The House Sept. 8, by a 271–68 roll-call vote, passed HR 14026, amended, and sent the measure to the Senate.
(For voting, see chart p. 914.)
As passed by the House, HR 14026 dropped the temporary ceilings on time deposits  approved by the Banking
and Currency Committee and provided instead for the discretionary rate-making authority sought by the
Administration. Three federal agencies–the Federal Reserve, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and Federal Home
Loan Bank Board–were empowered to set maximum rates  for different amounts and types of savings 
deposits . The authority was to lapse a year after the bill's enactment.
The shift from mandatory to discretionary rates  was adopted when the House, by a 104–39 standing vote,
accepted an amendment by Robert G. Stephens Jr. (D Ga.) to substitute the provisions of his own bill (HR 17255) for
those of the committee version. Although Banking and Currency Committee Chairman Patman vigorously opposed
the substitute bill, he did not seek a roll-call vote on the issue.
Other than the shift from mandatory rates , Stephens bill differed little from Patman's. Both versions authorized 
interest  controls for savings and loan associations and increased the maximum reserves that the Fed might
require member banks to hold against time and savings deposits .
The one-year limitation on the flexible interest  rate authority was added by House acceptance of a floor
amendment by William B. Widnall (R N.J.), ranking Republican on the Banking and Currency Committee. Also
accepted was an amendment which directed federal officials to take action to bring about lower interest rates
“to the maximum extent feasible….”
The House by a 130–214 roll-call vote rejected a motion by Burt L. Talcott (R Calif.) to recommit (kill) the bill.
In debate, which covered two days, Patman said his bill would act to lower interest rates  generally, help curb
inflation, pump funds into the emaciated housing industy and help undo “the terrible mistake” of the Federal Reserve
Board in December 1965 when it raised the discount rate and ceiling on time deposit rates .
Patman said the Stephens bill was “a high interest  bill. It is inflationary. It is a bill that will permit higher and
higher interest rates –up, up, up.” Patman argued that his bill “plainly puts the Congress on record for lower and
lower interest rates . The bill says that the Congress is no longer willing to leave the issue of interest rates
solely to the discretion of the Federal Reserve Board.”
Groups in favor of Patman's bill included the United States Savings and Loan League, the National League of
Insured Savings Assns., the AFL-CIO, the National Assn. of Home Builders, the National Rural Electric Cooperative
Assn., the National Farmers Union, and the Cooperative League of the USA.
Stephens said that in the Patman bill “we…are being asked to substitute our opinion for the opinion of those
agencies responsible for monetary policy which we created to advise us.” Stephens also argued that “we are asked
in the Patman bill to take the first step to destroy the Fed, by taking away its independence to fix interest rates
7/2/09 12:44 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 8http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal66-1300331&type=hitlist&num=0
in the Patman bill to take the first step to destroy the Fed, by taking away its independence to fix interest rates
and also by putting in the hands of the President of the United States the power to change this rate. This will be the
first step to utterly destroy the independence of the Federal Reserve System.”
The Stephens bill was supported by letters from the Fed, FHLBB, FDIC, and Secretary of the Treasury. Patman
Sept. 6 said that those groups in favor of his bill (above) were “specifically on record as being opposed” to the
Stephens' bill.
PROVISIONS – Provisions of the House bill were the same as those which were later enacted (see above).
AMENDMENTS ACCEPTED (The Minish amendment, which was to the Patman bill, was dropped from the final bill
by House acceptance of Stephens' substitute for the Patman bill. The other amendments, made to Stephens'
substitute, were included in the final bill.)
Sept. 8–Joseph G. Minish (D N.J.)–Place a 4-1/2-percent rate ceiling on all commercial bank deposits . Voice
vote.
Robert G. Stephens Jr. (D Ga.)–Substitute for the pending Patman bill, as reported by the Banking and Currency
Committee, new language providing federal bank regulatory officials flexible authority to set interest  rate
ceilings. Standing, 104–39.
W.E. Brock III (R Tenn.)–Strike out Section 6 of the bill which permitted commercial banks to sell conventional
mortgages on loans up to 80 percent of equity for 30 years on one- to four-family residences. Voice.
Thomas L. Ashley (D Ohio)–Direct the Secretary of the Treasury, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System,
Board of Directors of the FDIC and FHLBB to take action to bring about the reduction of interest rates  to the
“maximum extent feasible in the light of prevailing money market and general economic conditions.” Voice.
William B. Widnall (R N.J.)–Specify that all provisions would remain in effect for one year after enactment. Voice.
Amendment Rejected
Sept. 8–Thomas L. Rees (D Calif.)–Prohibit the Federal Reserve Open Market Committee from authorizing or
purchasing any obligation which is a direct obligation or fully guaranteed as to principal and interest  by any
Federal Home Loan Bank or which is sold, issued or guaranteed by Federal National Mortgage Association in its
secondary mortgage market operations except with a request by the Secretary of the Treasury. Standing, 38–47.
Senate
COMMITTEE – Banking and Currency.
HELD HEARINGS – Aug. 4-Sept. 13 on bills (S 3627, S 3687, and the House-passed version of HR 14026) dealing
with interest  and dividend rates .
S 3627, introduced July 19 by Committee Chairman A. Willis Robertson (D Va.) and ranking Republican Wallace F.
Bennett (R Utah), at the request of the Fed, provided flexible authority for the Fed to regulate maximum rates  of
interst and dividends payable by banks and certain other financial institutions on deposits  or share accounts,
and gave the Federal Home Loan Bank Board parallel authority to regulate rates  paid by savings and loan
associations.
S 3687, introduced by Robertson Aug. 3, after the Fed Aug. 2 asked for a broader bill, embodied the provisions of S
3627 and also authorized establishment of higher reserve requirements (up to 10 percent) on time deposits  at
Federal Reserve member banks, and authorized Federal Reserve Banks to buy and sell in the open market
obligations issued or guaranteed by Government agencies. S 3687 was similar to the version of HR 14026 later
passed by the House.
TESTIMONY – Aug. 4–Officials of four Government agencies urged approval of S 3687 as a means of warding off
further competition between commercial banks and savings and loan associations. The Treasury, the Federal
Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC) and Federal Home Loan Bank Board (FHLBB)
unanimously agreed during the hearings that approval of S 3687 was imperative to give them broader authority over 
interest rates . Joseph W. Barr, Under Secretary of the Treasury, said that following the action of the House
Committee July 25, the Treasury convened a meeting of the coordinating committee to discuss the issues involved.
This committee included the Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, the Comptroller of the Currency, the
Chairman of the FDIC and the Chairman of the FHLBB. Barr said the group reached “unanimous” agreement on six
points: grant the Fed flexible authority to establish different categories of deposits  for interestrate limitations;
give the same authority to the FDIC; grant standby authority to the FHLBB to set maximum rates  of interest
on share accounts of savings and loans: provide for coordinated use of these flexible authorities by the above
agencies; grant the Fed authority to raise reserve requirements on time and savings deposits  to a maximum of
10 percent (currently 6 percent); and broaden the Fed's authority so as to allow it to purchase obligations of any
Government agency.
Barr, in response to a question by William Proxmire (D Wis.) about the 4.5-percent ceiling included in the House
committee bill, said that if HR 14026 were enacted, he wanted to “emphasize the unpredictability of what could
7/2/09 12:44 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 8http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal66-1300331&type=hitlist&num=0
committee bill, said that if HR 14026 were enacted, he wanted to “emphasize the unpredictability of what could
happen. This is the reason we are asking for placing flexible authority,…because times and events change and an
inflexible rate…would bring on unpredictable results.” Barr told the Committee that if S 3687 were passed
immediately, both the Fed and the Treasury were apparently thinking of a 5-percent interest  rate to be set on
certificates under $100,000, while retaining a 5.5-percent rate for certificates of $100,000 or more. Futhermore. Barr
emphasized that if the statutory 4.5-percent ceiling proposed in HR 14026 were allowed to pass, the economy
“might just drop dead in its tracks.”
James L. Robertson, vice chairman of the Fed. testified that it was “extremely important” that agencies supervising
savings and loans associations also be given new authority to control rates  paid by such institutions. Barr and
John Horne, chairman of the FHLBB, agreed.
Spokesmen for the savings and loans associations objected to imposition of rate controls as part of the package.
They contended that the Bank Board would force them to reduce rates  to such a degree that they would not be
able to compete with banks on terms any better than those in existence. Norman Strunk, executive vice president of
the U.S. Savings and Loan League, said the proposed legislation would allow the Bank Board to set varying rates
 for different types of accounts and from city to city. Strunk said such a system would snarl the industry in red
tape.
Sept. 13–Barr, returning to testify on the House-passed bill (HR 14026), called for its rapid enactment. He said HR
14026 would cool off the rate competition between banks and S&Ls and also would help restrain “the unhealthy
escalation of interest rates ” throughout the economy.
Robertson, also testifying on HR 14026, urged that the legislation be made permanent rather than temporary.
Limiting the authority to one year, as approved by the House, he said, “might thwart the effective use of the new
authority” because the Fed would be reluctant to increase reserve requirements on time deposits  when it knew
its action would “automatically be reversed at the end of a year.”
Archie K. Davis, president of the American Bankers Assn. addressed a letter to the Committee expressing qualified
support for the House-passed bill. Davis generally supported the discretionary authority on interest  ceilings but
criticized provisions of the measure proposing higher ceilings for reserves and allowing the Fed to buy and sell
obligations of any federal agency.
Committee, Senate Action
The Committee Sept. 14 reported HR 14026 (S Rept 1601) without amendment. The full Senate the following day
passed the bill by voice vote without change and sent it to the President.
Bill Signed. President Johnson Sept. 21 signed HR 14026 into law (PL 89-597). At the signing ceremonies, Mr.
Johnson called the legislation an important part of an anti-inflationary program he announced in a message to
Congress Sept. 8 (see p. 1278). He said the measure would be a step toward controlling spiraling interest rates
, one of the “most dangerous threats to a sound and healthy economy.”
Features
Certificates of Deposit
A certificate of deposit (CD) is issued by a commercial bank as a receipt for funds-deposited with the bank for a
specific length of time and bearing a specific rate of interest . If it is negotiable, it can be bought and sold like an
IOU. Usually it can be cashed at a date earlier than maturity but at a lower interest  rate.
Prior to 1961, CDs were issued generally for large amounts ($100,000 or more) and were used by big corporations
to put excess cash to work on a short-term basis. Many small Midwestern and Southwestern banks used CDs
extensively since before 1928, however. In 1961, large New York City banks began issuing CDs for smaller
amounts. In early 1966, CDs were being offered for amounts down to $20 to $25 and for periods as short as 30
days with a top interest rate of 5.5 percent.
Document Citation
"Interest Rates on Deposits at Banks Limited." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal66-1300331.
Originally published in CQ Almanac 1966 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1967).
http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal66-1300331 (accessed July 2, 2009).
Document ID: cqal66-1300331
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal66-1300331
© 1967, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
