2/8/10 2:10 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 23file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-7…0and%20Metropolitan%20Development%20Act%20of%201966.webarchive
HR 15890–Reported by House Banking
and Currency Committee (H Rept 1699)
July 15, 1966.
S 3708–Reported by Senate Banking and
Currency Committee (S Rept 1439) Aug.
9, 1966.
S 3711–Reported by Senate Banking and
Currency Committee (S Rept 1455) Aug.
10, 1966.
S 3711–Passed, amended, by a 61-3 roll-
call vote of the Senate Aug. 12. (For vote
chart, see p. 970.)
S 3708–Passed, amended, by a 53-22
roll-call vote of the Senate Aug. 19. (For
vote chart, see p. 973.)
S 3708–Reported, amended, by House
Banking and Currency Committee (H Rept
1931) Sept. 1, 1966.
S 3708–Passed, amended, by a 178–141
roll-call vote of the House Oct. 14. (For
vote chart, see p. 930.)
S 3708–Conference report (H Rept 2301)
Housing, Demonstration Cities Bill Enacted
An article from CQ Almanac 1966
Document Outline
Provisions
Background
Senate
House
Conference
Features
Congress in 1966 enacted broad new programs for community renewal in U.S. cities and for orderly development of metropolitan
areas.
The programs were included in an omnibus urban assistance and housing bill, the Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan
Development Act of 1966 (S 3708–PL 89 - 754 ). It was the second consecutive year that Congress enacted major housing
and urban development legislation.
Highlight of the bill was a three-year, $1.2 billion “demonstration cities” plan–a key “Great Society” measure designed to rebuild
entire urban areas by tying together the wide array of existing federal and local programs and new innovations by the participating
communities for a coordinated attack on blight. Participating cities, to be selected under strict federal standards, were to receive
federal funds for up to 80 percent of the financial contribution which the cities normally would have to contribute (under existing
law) as their share of all federally assisted programs in an approved demonstrations plan. Most federal assistance programs, in
housing as well as other areas, require a recipient to contribute a certain percentage (which varies with different programs) of the
cost of the project. The demonstration cities bill was designed to help cities by providing grants of up to 80 percent of this local
contribution. The bill permitted the cities to use the funds coming to them under the 80-percent provision, first, to finance any new
or existing program in the demonstration plan which did not receive other federal aid and, second (if any funds were left over
from the first purpose), to use them to help pay costs of the local contribution required under the federally assisted programs.
To fund the demonstrations plan, the bill authorized federal grants of $24 million
for planning the projects in fiscal 1967 and fiscal 1968, and an additional $400
million in fiscal 1968 and $500 million in fiscal 1969 for carrying out the plans.
An additional lump sum of $250 million in urban renewal funds was earmarked
for demonstration projects initiated in and after fiscal 1968. Aid to an estimated
60 to 70 cities was contemplated under the bill.
The basic concept of the demonstrations plan came from recommendations by a
special Task Force on Urban Problems, appointed by President Johnson late in
1965. The Task Force was headed by Dr. Robert C. Wood, then chairman of the
Political Science Department at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who
Jan. 13, 1966, was appointed Under Secretary of the Department of Housing
and Urban Development.
In a departure from the approach of the existing urban renewal program, which
emphasized new construction, the demonstrations plan envisioned a
restructuring of the “total environment” of the residents of “demonstration”
neighborhoods. By authorizing additional federal funds which could be used for
education, antipoverty and similar social programs, the bill sought to attack the
human problems as well as the physical factors causing blight and decay.
Although the final bill provided essentially the same level of annual funding for
demonstrations as requested by the President, it did not provide the long-range
program Mr. Johnson had sought. His original request envisioned a $2.3 billion
program with one year of planning and five years of implementation (fiscal 1967–
72). He subsequently requested an additional $600 million for urban renewal
activities in the demonstration cities. An intensive Administration lobbying effort
in early summer salvaged the original program in the House Banking and
Currency Committee's Housing Subcommittee, but the Administration later was
forced to compromise when considerable opposition arose in the Senate.
2/8/10 2:10 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 23file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-7…0and%20Metropolitan%20Development%20Act%20of%201966.webarchive
S 3708–Conference report (H Rept 2301)
agreed to by a 38-22 roll-call vote of the
Senate Oct. 18 (see vote chart p. 986)
and by a 142-126 roll-call vote of the
House Oct. 20, 1966 (see p. 936).
PL 89 - 754 –Signed into law Nov.
3, 1966.
forced to compromise when considerable opposition arose in the Senate.
Despite the dilutions, the bill came under a strong floor assault by Republicans
in both House and Senate, and its outcome was never a certainty in either
chamber.
A second major victory for the Administration was inclusion of a new program for
federal land development mortgage insurance for developers of entire “new
towns.” This was a high-priority Administration measure which was killed in
committee in 1964 and 1965. The proposal was again blocked by the Senate
Banking and Currency Committee's Housing Subcommittee in 1966, but it was
approved by the House and sustained by Senate-House conferees. Conferees
wrote in restrictive language limiting the program to a six-year duration
(terminating Oct. 1, 1972), requiring project approval by governing bodies of adjoining localities and by the state Governor, and
limiting to $250 million the maximum amount of all such insured loans that could be outstanding at any one time. (See box p.
215.)
A third major Administration program approved in the final bill was a plan for “incentive” grants to encourage comprehensive and
current areawide planning. Cities meeting program standards were to receive supplemental grants of up to 20 percent of project
costs normally paid by local communities for such programs as mass transit, sewer and water facilities, highway construction,
airport development, open-space land acquisition and acquisition of land and water facilities.
Other important features of the final bill included an Administration-backed program of FHA mortgage insurance to finance and
equip facilities for group medical, dental and optometrical practice, a plan revising existing urban renewal laws to authorize
preservation of historic sites as an eligible urban renewal cost, liberal Republican-sponsored language requiring the residential
redevelopment of any urban renewal area to provide for a “substantial” supply of housing within the means of low- and moderate-
income families, and numerous other related programs, including proposals advanced by the Administration and others initiated
by Congress.
Appropriations. Congress in 1966 appropriated $11 million in fiscal 1967 for planning demonstration city projects authorized by S
3708. The Administration requested $12 million. However, a request for $12,180,000 to initiate the program of “incentive” grants
for metropolitan planning was denied. The demonstration city planning funds were provided in HR 18381, a supplemental
appropriations bill for fiscal 1967. (See story p. 190.)
Provisions
As signed by the President, S 3708, the Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan Development Act of 1966 (PL 89 - 754 ),
contained the following major provisions:
Title I. Comprehensive City Demonstration Programs.
Findings, Purpose. Expressed the finding of Congress that improvement of the quality of urban life was “the most critical
domestic problem facing the United States.” Stated that cities of all sizes did not have adequate resources to deal effectively with
urban problems, thus making new means of assistance necessary in addition to urban renewal and other existing federal grant-
in-aid programs.
Provided, in accordance with the Congressional finding, a new “comprehensive city demonstration program” providing additional
federal assistance to improve the “total environment” of neighborhoods in selected cities through a coordination of federal, state
and local programs in the field of housing, welfare, education, transport and related areas. Stated that a major purpose of the
program was to provide “additional financial and technical assistance to enable cities of all sizes (with equal regard to the
problems of small as well as large cities) to plan, develop, and carry out locally prepared and scheduled comprehensive city
demonstration programs containing new and imaginative proposals to rebuild or revitalize large slum and blighted areas.”
Stipulated that federal assistance for the program would be channeled through a single “city demonstration agency” designated by
the local governing body.
Required that all the activities making up the over-all demonstration program be approved in a single, coordinated package.
Stated that the plan might include any new or existing state or local program which furthered the over-all objectives of the plan
and also might make use of any federal program which was “closely related to the physical and social problems in the area of the
city covered by the program” and could “reasonably be expected to have a noticeable effect upon such problems.”
Authorization of Assistance. Authorized federal grants to participating cities of up to 80 percent of the amount which a
community must contribute, under existing law, to all of the federally assisted programs approved as part of the plan.
Required the city to spend the funds coming to it under the 80-percent provision first to finance any new or existing nonfederally
assisted program approved as part of the demonstration and second to help pay the required local share (that, is, the
community's dollar contribution of federal programs approved as part of the plans. Funds were to be used first for the new or
nonfederally assisted programs with any amounts left over going toward the local share of existing federal programs. (For
illustration, see p. 213.)
Provided separate grants of up to 80 percent for office and similar expenses incurred in administering new and existing
nonfederally assisted programs approved as part of a demonstrations project (but not administrative costs of programs already
receiving federal aid).
Required applicants for demonstration cities projects to submit comprehensive plans for approval of the Secretary of Housing and
2/8/10 2:10 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 23file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-7…0and%20Metropolitan%20Development%20Act%20of%201966.webarchive
Required applicants for demonstration cities projects to submit comprehensive plans for approval of the Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD). Authorized grants of up to 80 percent of costs for formulating such plans.
Directed the HUD Secretary to consider numerous specific criteria in reviewing project plans, including major requirements that:
physical and social problems in the project area justified a comprehensive renewal effort: the proposed project was of sufficient
magnitude to make a substantial impact on physical and social problems and to remove or arrest blight and decay in entire
sections or neighborhoods; the project contributed to the “sound development” of the entire city, making “marked progress” in
reducing social and educational disadvantages, ill health, underemployment and enforced idleness”; the project provided
educational, health and social services necessary to serve the poor and disadvantaged in the area and envisioned widespread
citizen participation in the program and maximum opportunities for employing residents of the area in all of the program's phases;
the project contributed toward a well-balanced city, with a substantial increase in the supply of standard housing of both low and
moderate cost; all projects within the demonstration be scheduled for initiation within a short period of time; maximum utilization
be made of private enterprise and initiative; the program include a plan for relocation of individuals, businesses and other parties
displaced because of program activities; the program be approved by the local governing body; local laws and administrative
procedures be consistent with objectives of the program; the city or locality assure that it would not reduce, during the period the
approved program was carried out, its prior level of aggregate expenditures for activities outside the demonstration project which
were similar to those being assisted as part of the demonstration; the project envisioned a high standard of design in housing and
building construction, retention of natural and historic sites and “distinctive neighborhood characteristics,” and maximum use of
new and improved technology and design, including cost reduction techniques.
Authorized the HUD Secretary to impose other eligibility requirements, provided they were essential to carry out the specific
provisions of the bill.
Prohibited the Secretary from requiring busing of children into integrated schools as a condition for participation in the program.
Directed the Secretary to consult with other federal Departments and agencies administering grant-in-aid programs before issuing
demonstration cities regulations. Also directed the Secretary to consult with each Department and agency affected by each
demonstration cities project before approving program funds.
Authorized $12 million in planning funds for the projects in each of the fiscal years 1967 and 1968. Authorized $400 million in
fiscal 1968 and $500 million in fiscal 1969 for grants to implement the program. Also authorized an additional $250 million in
urban renewal funds to be used, in and after fiscal 1968, for projects which were part of an approved demonstration.
Limited the amount of funds committed to any one state for approved demonstration projects to 15 percent of the total
authorization.
Title II. Planned Metropolitan Development. Expressed the finding of Congress that the national welfare was “directly
dependent” upon “sound and orderly” development and organization of metropolitan areas. Stated that the task of current and
comprehensive planning was handicapped by the “complexity and scope” of governmental services required in such areas, the
“multiplicity” of political jurisdictions and agencies involved, and the inadequacy of administrative arrangements available for
intergovernmental cooperation.
Provided, in accordance with the finding, the following provisions to ensure more orderly metropolitan growth:
Cooperation Between Agencies. Authorized the HUD Secretary to obtain from other agencies statistical data, program reports
and other material needed to carry out HUD's metropolitan area responsibilities.
Metropolitan Expediters. Authorized the appointment of “metropolitan expediters,” in areas demonstrating both a need and
desire for such officials, to provide information, data and assistance to local authorities and private persons concerning HUD
programs and programs of other federal and state agencies relating to HUD activities.
Stipulated that expediters could be appointed only upon request of local officials of the central city of a metropolitan area and
after consultation between the HUD Secretary and local governmental authorities throughout the entire metropolitan area.
Metropolitan Coordination Requirement. Required that, beginning July 1, 1967, all applications for federal assistance in
carrying out projects for open-space land, hospitals, airports, libraries, water supply and distribution facilities, sewerage facilities
and waste treatment works, highways, transportation facilities, or water development and land conservation within any
metropolitan area be submitted for review of a metropolitan-wide planning agency; stipulated that such agency should be, to the
greatest extent practicable, responsible to the local officials of a unit of areawide government or of the local governments
involved. (See box p. 227.)
Directed metropolitan-wide agencies to submit their recommendations and comments concerning applications to the appropriate
federal authorities, who were required to review such recommendations for the “sole purpose of… determining whether the
application is in accordance with the provisions of federal law which govern the making of the loans or grants.”
Allowed localities such as a city to submit their applications without the recommendations of a metropolitan-wide agency after the
application had lain before the agency without recommendation for a period of 60 days.
Authorized the Bureau of the Budget, or any other agency designated by the President, to prescribe rules and regulations for
administration of the new requirement.
“Incentive” Planning Grants. Provided a new program of “incentive” urban aid grants to supplement existing federal aid in areas
demonstrating to the satisfaction of the HUD Secretary that all public and private development having a significant areawide
impact was consistent with comprehensive and current metropolitan planning.
2/8/10 2:10 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 23file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-7…0and%20Metropolitan%20Development%20Act%20of%201966.webarchive
Made grants for the program available for up to 20 percent of the local share of costs for the following federally assisted
programs: basic water and sewer facilities; library facilities; hospital and medical facilities: construction of sewage treatment works;
highway construction (federal-aid primary and secondary systems and urban extensions, but not the Interstate System); airport
development; urban mass transportation; open-space land development and acquisition; urban beautification and improvement;
historic preservation; acquisition and development of land and waters for recreational purposes: and public works and facilities in
redevelopment areas.
Limited the maximum amount of combined federal grants under the new program and existing law to 80 percent of project costs.
Specifically prohibited the HUD Secretary from requiring busing of children or adoption of any other program to achieve a racial
balance between school districts in a metropolitan area as a condition for receiving assistance.
Authorized appropriation of $25 million for the grants in fiscal 1967 and $50 million in fiscal 1968. Limited to 15 percent the
amount of the total authorization available to any one state.
Stipulated that no specific activities were to receive supplemental assistance under both the “incentive” grant program and the
demonstration cities program authorized under Title I.
Title III. FHA Insurance Operations. Broadened the veterans home loan mortgage insurance program authorized by the Housing
and Urban Development Act of 1965 (PL 89-117) to make benefits available to veterans who had already received a direct,
guaranteed or insured home loan administered by the Veterans Administration.
Waived requirements for economic soundness of loans insured under normal FHA operations to provide a new home mortgage
insurance program in areas in which violence or civil disorders had occurred or were threatened. Made a property eligible for
such assistance when it was deemed an acceptable risk “giving due consideration to the need for providing adequate housing for
families of low-and moderate-income in such (an) area.”
Authorized the HUD Secretary to issue regulations providing a 25-percent increase in mortgage limits for two-, three- and four-
bedroom apartments insured under the FHA rehabilitation housing mortgage loan program.
Increased from $11,000 to $12,500 the mortgage limitation on single-family home purchased under the FHA mortgage insurance
program for low- and moderate-income and displaced families. (The program was widely known as Section 221 Housing–its
designation under the authorizing legislation–the National Housing Act.) Also increased the mortgage limit on a two-family
residence under the program from $18,000 to $20,000.
Amended the National Housing Act to authorize the FHA to permit occupancy by single persons under 62 years of age of up to
10 percent of the units in a project assisted by the FHA below-market interest rate mortgage insurance program for low- and
moderate-income housing. (Existing law limited occupancy in such housing to elderly individuals and families and nonelderly
families.)
Provided, for experimental purposes, a new FHA below-market interest rate loan insurance program to assist low-income families
in buying rehabilitated homes. Limited the aggregate amount of such insured mortgages that could be outstanding at any one
time to $20 million.
Title IV. Land Development and New Communities. Broadened the existing FHA land development insurance program to
authorize insurance for developers of entire new towns and new communities.
Increased from $10 million to $25 million the maximum mortgage for a single land development undertaking. Required that private
loans for such projects contain repayment provisions satisfactory to the HUD Secretary and have a maturity not to exceed seven
years (unless the Secretary at his discretion approved a longer maturity period).
Required that applications for assistance under the title first be approved by the local governing bodies of adjoining localities and
by the state Governor.
Limited the program to a six-year duration (terminating Oct. 1, 1972) and limited the maximum amount of all such insured loans
that could be outstanding at one time to $250 million.
Permitted either a public sewer system or an adequately regulated private one on land developed under the program.
Amended the Housing Act of 1954 to authorize urban planning grants to official government planning agencies in areas where
new communities were to be developed with federal mortgage assistance. (Existing law limited such grants to metropolitan areas,
depressed areas and federally impacted areas.)
Amended the National Housing Act to make clear that the requirements for encouraging broad participation by builders in all FHA
land development mortgage insurance programs envisioned primarily the participation of small builders.
Title V. Mortgage Insurance for Group Practice Facilities. Authorized a new program of FHA insurance for loans to finance
and equip facilities for group practice of medicine, dentistry or optometry.
Limited such mortgages to a period of 25 years and to an amount not to exceed the lesser of 90 percent of the value of the
facility or $5 million.
Stipulated that although both profitmaking and non-profitmaking groups could sponsor such clinics, only nonprofit groups could
actually take out mortgages. Provided a three-year duration for the program, through Oct. 1, 1969.
2/8/10 2:10 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 23file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-7…0and%20Metropolitan%20Development%20Act%20of%201966.webarchive
Title VI. Preservation of Historic Structures. Amended the basic urban renewal law (Title I of the Housing Act of 1949) to
provide for recognition of historic and architectural preservation in urban renewal plans and to authorize such planning and actual
preservation activities as eligible urban renewal costs.
Authorized the HUD Secretary to make grants to the National Trust for Historic Preservation to cover costs incurred by the Trust
in renovating or restoring structures which it considered to be of historic or architectural value and which it would maintain after
restoration for historic purposes. Provided an open-ended authorization for the aggregate amount of such grants, but provided a
maximum of $90,000 for assistance to any one structure.
Authorized grants to cities, other municipalities or counties for up to two-thirds the cost of surveys of the structures and sites in
such localities determined by appropriate authorities to be of historic or architectural value. Directed that such surveys be
designed to identify the historic structures and sites in the locality, determine the cost of their restoration or rehabilitation and
provide other information necessary to formulate an effective program of historic preservation.
Authorized the HUD Secretary to make grants of up to 90 percent of costs of local demonstrations to show the effect of modern
methods in preserving and restoring historic sites or structures. Limited the total amount of such grants to $10 million. Also
authorized the Secretary to make grants of up to 50 percent of the cost of acquisition and restoration of historic sites or
structures, without limitation as to the total commitment of grants.
Title VII. Urban Renewal. Authorized localities to credit toward the local share of urban renewal costs, expenditures totaling the
lesser of $3.5 million or 25 percent of costs incurred on (1) facilities used by the public predominantly for cultural, exhibition or
civic purposes; (2) city halls or public safety buildings or (3) facilities constructed or rehabilitated by a public university for the
treatment of physical or mental disabilities and illness or for medical research. Stipulated that such credit would be available,
however, only when the project was located in or near the urban renewal area, was found to contribute materially to the object of
the urban renewal plan, and was not otherwise eligible as a local grant-in-aid.
Permitted air rights sites in urban renewal areas to be used for industrial development if found to be unsuitable for use in low-
and moderate-income housing.
Required that the residential redevelopment of any urban renewal area provide a “substantial” supply of standard housing of low
and moderate cost and result in “marked progress in serving the poor and disadvantaged people living in slum and blighted
areas.”
Amended the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965 to make clear that the Urban Renewal Administration was required to
grant a three-fourths rather than two-thirds federal contribution to urban renewal projects initiated in an area suffering from
substantial or persistent unemployment; amended the 1949 Housing Act to extend from one-quarter mile to one mile the distance
from an urban renewal project a university or hospital could be located and still credit certain expenditures toward the local share
of urban renewal costs; and required that plans to redevelop urban renewal areas give “consideration” to development of effective
systems for the control of storm and sanitary wastes.
Title VIII. Rural Housing. Amended the Housing Act of 1949 to authorize use of Farmers Home Administration direct housing
loans for purchase of newly constructed homes. (Existing law limited the use of such loans to purchase previously occupied
dwellings.)
Increased from $1,000 to $1,500 the maximum combination of Farmers Home Administration loans and grants which could be
made to families of low income for essential home repairs.
Broadened the existing rental housing program for rural areas to permit direct loans for housing projects accommodating
nonelderly rural residents of low income and insured loans for housing of nonelderly residents of moderate income (nonelderly
meant persons under 62 years of age). Also broadened the types of organizations that could receive direct loans to include
housing cooperatives. (Existing law limited direct loans to elderly persons of low-and moderate-income and insured loans to any
elderly person regardless of income. Direct loans could be executed only by nonprofit corporations and consumer cooperatives.)
Eliminated the existing ceiling of $300 million on the amount of rural housing loans that could be insured annually, but limited the
duration of the program to Oct. 1, 1969.
Title IX. Urban Information and Technical Assistance Services. Authorized a new program of federal grants to states and
metropolitan area agencies of up to 50 percent of cost for establishment of urban information and technical assistance centers.
Required that such facilities provide both state and local bodies and private individuals with information and data needed for the
solution of urban problems and provide technical assistance to small communities outside metropolitan areas with respect to the
solution of such problems.
Provided an authorization of $2.5 million for the program in fiscal 1967 and $5 million in fiscal 1968.
Title X. Miscellaneous. Increased from 36 months to 60 months the maximum term of lease for private accommodations to be
used as public housing.
Authorized appropriation of $10 million for a new program of federal grants and loans to the state of Alaska to assist in providing
housing and related facilities to natives and other needy persons. Limited grants to 75 percent of aggregate building costs up to a
per unit maximum of $7,500.
Directed the HUD Secretary to conduct two-year studies to test and demonstrate new and improved techniques and methods of
applying advances in technology to urban development activities and to formulate methods to improve understanding of
2/8/10 2:10 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 23file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-7…0and%20Metropolitan%20Development%20Act%20of%201966.webarchive
applying advances in technology to urban development activities and to formulate methods to improve understanding of
environmental conditions necessary for the planning and development of “viable urban centers.”
Amended the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965 to spell out specific terms of Defense Department acquisition (or
reimbursement of loss in private sale) of properties held by individuals unemployed by the closing of a federal installation.
Stipulated that such homeowners were to receive up to 95 percent of losses incurred in private sale of such housing or 90
percent of value when the properties were purchased by the Department. (The higher payment for private sale was designed to
take into account the additional costs to the homeowner of effecting such sale and also to limit the number of properties that the
Defense Department might have to acquire.)
Also amended the 1965 Housing legislation to make available until six months after enactment of PL 89 - 754  an
unappropriated authorization of $100,000 for a study to determine methods of insulating homes located near airports so as to
diminish the effects of aircraft noise. (The original authorization expired Aug. 10, 1966.)
Background
REFERENCES: For discussion of federal housing programs since the 1930s, see Congress and the Nation p. 459. For summary
of housing programs, see 1965 Almanac p. 365. For Congressional action on housing legislation in recent years, see 1961
Almanac p. 188; 1964 Almanac p. 274 and 1965 Almanac p. 358 and 382.
Congress in 1965 enacted two major pieces of housing legislation. One was an omnibus bill which covered many housing and
urban development problems. The best known part of the omnibus bill authorized a new program of rent supplements to low-
income families who could not obtain adequate housing with their own incomes. It also extended or expanded many existing
programs, such as urban renewal and college housing aid, and established various new programs in addition to rent supplements.
The other bill established a Department of Housing and Urban Development, the 11th Cabinet-level department and the first
created since the Department of Health, Education and Welfare was begun in 1953.
Because of the major housing actions in 1965 and important although less extensive housing legislation enacted in 1964, new
proposals by the Johnson Administration were not expected in 1966.
Administration Proposals
President Johnson in his Jan. 12 State of the Union Message called for public and private efforts to eliminate urban blight. The
President's specific requests were spelled out in a special city development message submitted to Congress Jan. 26. (See text p.
1228.)
Of major emphasis in the President's Jan. 26 message was the program of demonstration grants to selected cities, for
coordinated local programs designed to show how urban renovations, welfare and other activities could revitalize the cores of
large cities. As collateral measures, the President also called for a ban on racial discrimination in the sale or rental of housing;
renewed a request, denied in 1964 and 1965, for Federal Housing Administration mortgage insurance for developers of entire
new towns and new communities; asked for a broadening and extension of existing metropolitan planning, urban mass
transportation and other programs; and called again for funds to initiate a program of rent supplements for low-income families.
Together, the President said, these measures would provide for “the rebirth of urban America.”
Following is a description of the four Administration draft bills which eventually formed the basis for the omnibus bill (S 3708–PL 
89 - 754 ) passed by Congress, and the outcome of the specific proposals. The four measures included all major
Presidential proposals except the housing discrimination ban and funds for rent supplements, which were considered in separate
legislation. For story about the housing discrimination proposal, see p. 450; for story about rent supplements funds, see p. 245.
Demonstration Cities Act. The President's city demonstration proposals were contained in the Demonstration Cities Act (HR
12341, S 2842), introduced in the House Jan. 27 by Banking and Currency Committee Chairman Wright Patman (D Texas) and in
the Senate the same date by Paul H. Douglas (D Ill.) and 15 co-sponsors. The bill authorized grants to participating cities of up to
80 percent of the total non-federal contribution, or local share, of all federal programs approved as part of a concentrated attack
on blight. It envisioned one year of planning and five years of implementation, beginning in fiscal 1967, with a planning
authorization of $12 million and an open-ended authorization for project grants. The President in his Message estimated the total
cost of the six-year program at $2.3 billion. A modified three-year version of the plan with specific dollar authorizations was
enacted in PL 89 - 754 . The law authorized $24 million for planning activities and $900 million for implementation during
fiscal 1967–69. In addition, it authorized $250 million for urban renewal activities in connection with demonstration city projects.
(See details in provisions, above.)
GOP Demonstration Cities Bill. Rep. Paul A. Fino (R N.Y.) Feb. 24 introduced a substitute bill (HR 1304S) for the
Administration's city demonstrations measure (HR 12341). The GOP bill followed many of the Administration proposals regarding
program and financial criteria but varied sharply by substituting a federal information officer for the federal coordinator and adding
language expressing the sense of Congress that the demonstrations were not to detract “in any way” from powers of local
government to control and administer existing federal grant-in-aid programs.
Urban Development Act. Other new proposals and an extension and strengthening of some existing programs were included in
the proposed Urban Development Act (HR 12939, S 2977). The bill was introduced in the House Feb. 21 by William A. Barrett (D
Pa.) and in the Senate Feb. 24 by John J. Sparkman (D Ala.). A major provision of the measure authorized “incentive” metropolitan
planning grants for communities practicing comprehensive area-wide planning; the grants could be for up to 20 percent of the
required local share of a variety of federal urban assistance programs. It also authorized land development mortgage insurance
for developers of entire new towns and new communities, provided a one-year extension (through fiscal 1968) of the urban mass
transportation program and authorized demonstration grants for urban information centers. The “incentive” metropolitan planning
2/8/10 2:10 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 23file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-7…0and%20Metropolitan%20Development%20Act%20of%201966.webarchive
transportation program and authorized demonstration grants for urban information centers. The “incentive” metropolitan planning
grants, new towns assistance, and grants for urban information centers were provided in PL 89 - 754 ; extension of the
urban mass transit program was provided in separate legislation, PL 89-562. (For story on mass transit bill, see p. 802.)
Housing and Urban Development Amendments. Extension and broadening of other existing programs was provided in the
proposed Housing and Urban Development Amendments of 1966 (HR 13064, S 2978), introduced in the House by Patman and in
the Senate by Sparkman Feb. 24. The bill in its major provisions increased from $11,000 to $12,500 the mortgage limitation on
single-family homes and from $18,000 to $20,000 on a two-family residence purchased under the FHA mortgage insurance
program for low- and moderate-income and displaced families; permitted local housing authorities to lease private housing on a
short-term basis, without regard to the existing one- to three-year limitation, when low-rent accommodations were needed to
relocate persons displaced by governmental action; and authorized leasing of planned new developments, as well as existing
dwellings, for public housing use. The income limits on the FHA mortgage program were increased under PL 89 - 754 ,
but the public housing provisions were rewritten to provide instead for an increase from 36 months to 60 months in the maximum
term of lease for private accommodations to be used as public housing.
Medical Facilities. A fourth Administration bill (HR 9256, S 3215) provided for FHA mortgage insurance and direct loans to
finance and equip facilities for group medical and dental practice. President Johnson recommended the program in his 1965
Health Message. House hearings were held on a similar bill (HR 2987) in 1965, but action was deferred until 1966. The President
again endorsed the program in his March 1 message on domestic health and education. (For 1965 Message, see 1965 Almanac
p. 1385; for 1966 Message, see p. 1255.)
The bill was introduced in the House by Patman June 21, 1965, and in the Senate by Sparkman April 13, 1966. The direct loan
provision of the measure was not included in PL 89 - 754 , but the mortgage insurance program, broadened to cover the
group practice of optometry, was authorized.
Senate
COMMITTEE–Banking and Currency.
HELD HEARINGS–April 19–29 on the four Administration bills comprising the President's 1966 city development program: S
2842, providing the demonstration cities plan; S 2977, authorizing “incentive” metropolitan planning grants and new towns
assistance; S 2978, extending and broadening certain existing programs; and S 3215, providing federal assistance for group
medical and dental practice. The hearings also concerned two Administration-backed bills (S 1915, S 3255) providing housing
and community facilities aid for the state of Alaska, a bill (S 3097) providing financial aid for preservation of historic structures,
and bills (S 2804, S 2955 and S 3061) extending and strengthening federal mass transportation programs.
TESTIMONY–April 19–Robert C. Weaver, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), outlined provisions of the
President's program. Weaver's testimony was essentially the same as he presented during House hearings. (See p. 222.)
April 21–Honolulu Mayor Neil S. Blaisdell, testifying on behalf of the U.S. Conference of Mayors, said the entire $2.3 billion
envisioned for city demonstration grants over the five action years of the program should be made available upon enactment of
the bill. “We want and need a firm commitment from the Administration and Congress that both mean business in this program,”
he said. “The only way that commitment can be made real is to set up the obligational authority so the funds will be there when
the cities require them.”
William J. Levitt, president of Levitt and Sons Inc., a firm engaged in international community building, termed “unrealistic and
inadequate” the S 2977 provision authorizing federal mortgage insurance to encourage development of new towns and new
communities. The $25 million mortgage limit on any new project, Levitt said, would preclude development of self-contained cities
and would give rise to “smallish satellite communities” surrounding the “swollen megacities that are engulfing us.” This, he said,
would compound rather than alleviate urban problems. What was needed, he asserted, was a multi-billion dollar federal mortgage
insurance program to create entire new cities “in the middle of nowhere.”
John H. Haas, executive vice president of the General Improvement Contractors Assn., opposed the city demonstrations,
contending that the plan was an “official admission that we have wasted years of renewal programs and billions of dollars
designed to arouse and sustain those resources in our cities.” Haas likened the program to “slapping a brand new ten gallon hat
on an old head full of sores.” It would “cover them up all right for the Fourth of July parade,” he said, “but it certainly will not cure
them.”
April 25–Kenneth A. Schmied, mayor of Louisville, Ky., commended the objectives of the city demonstrations but criticized the
provision creating federal coordinators to provide liaison services in each approved project area. This provision, Schmied said,
had the “potential for introducing an element of federal political control into these programs which has been notably, and
beneficially, absent in the past.”
April 26–Sen. Jacob K. Javits (R N.Y.), who was not a member of the Subcommittee, endorsed the city demonstrations but
forecast “a grave danger that the great potential of the bill would not be fulfilled” unless the original Administration proposals were
substantially broadened. Major amendments proposed by Javits included expansion of coverage to make grants available to more
than one neighborhood in eligible cities, inclusion of additional program criteria to give priority in grants to cities with intense
economic and social pressures, and an increase of urban renewal outlays by $250 million over the authorizations for fiscal years
1967, 1968 and 1969.
April 27–Vermont Gov. Philip H. Hoff (D) testified in favor of S 3097, stating that the aid provided by the bill constituted the “first
comprehensive national policy and program on historic preservation.” We are suffering an attrition of distinguished structures
which has the aspect of a catastrophe,” Hoff said. “This is not a program that can be deferred. Every month of delay means more
2/8/10 2:10 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 23file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-7…0and%20Metropolitan%20Development%20Act%20of%201966.webarchive
which has the aspect of a catastrophe,” Hoff said. “This is not a program that can be deferred. Every month of delay means more
structures lost through demolition.”
April 29–Sen. E.L. Bartlett (D Alaska), not a member of the Subcommittee, said enactment of special housing aid for his state
would improve living conditions among the most “deplorable” in the world. Noting a high correlation between housing conditions
in Alaska's native villages and the incidence of certain diseases, Bartlett said, “We could build three decent homes for the cost of
curing one case of tuberculosis.” (Administration support for Alaska housing aid was promised when Bartlett agreed to switch
from opposition to support of the Administration's controversial rent supplements plan on a crucial vote regarding program funds.
See p. 245.)
Bills Approved
The Banking and Currency Committee during the week of Aug. 8 reported three clean bills embodying most of the pending
legislation. A modified version of the demonstration cities plan and virtually unaltered versions of the metropolitan planning
provisions and aid for urban information centers were embodied in S 3708, reported by the Committee Aug. 9 (S Rept 1439). The
mass transit program was approved separately in S 3700 (S Rept 1436), reported Aug. 8, while most of the other legislation
considered by the Committee was approved in S 3711 (S Rept 1455), reported Aug. 10. All were clean bills that were drafted in
committee following hearings. The only major program not approved was the President's new towns plan, dropped by the
Committee for the third consecutive year.
Congress subsequently enacted S 3700 as a separate bill. The Senate passed S 3708 and S 3711 separately, but Congress
ultimately combined the measures into a single omnibus bill, S 3708. (For details of action on S 3700, see p. 802; for action on S
3708 and S 3711, see below.)
Changes in Administration Proposals
S 3708–S Rept 1439.  In its major action on Administration requests, the Committee reduced demonstration city planning and
action funds from the proposed level of $2.3 billion to $924 million and the program's duration from six to three years. Funds
under the committee bill were earmarked as follows: $12 million for planning the projects in fiscal 1967, an additional $12 million
for planning in fiscal 1968, $400 million in implementation funds in fiscal 1968, and an additional $500 million in implementation
funds in fiscal 1969. The Committee also reduced an Administration request, submitted after the close of committee hearings, for
$600 million in additional urban renewal funds to be earmarked exclusively for use in demonstration city projects. For this
purpose, the Committee provided a total of $250 million, effective for demonstration projects initiated in and after fiscal 1968.
Approval of the urban renewal funds brought total costs of the modified package to $1.2 billion.
In other major changes, the Committee deleted Administration language requiring that approved demonstration city projects
counteract racial segregation in housing and added its own proviso stipulating that demonstration cities assistance should first be
used to finance new programs not federally assisted and only secondarily to defray costs of the local share of programs receiving
federal aid. The Committee also deleted the provision for mandatory appointment of a federal coordinator for demonstration cities
projects and provided instead for optional appointment of a “metropolitan expediter” in any metropolitan area (not only
demonstration cities) demonstrating a need and desire for such officials. Other features of the demonstrations program closely
followed Administration requests.
The Committee's changes in the measure came after the Administration had reportedly conceded that an all-out effort to salvage
the full bill might result in no bill at all. The original measure reportedly had little support in the Committee, with some members
opposed to the social objectives of the demonstrations plan and almost the entire panel displeased with the original bill's costs. In
an effort to work out a compromise, President Johnson dispatched members of the White House staff to participate in the actual
committee markup of the bill (a move revealed by the President at his Aug. 10 news conference). Deletion of the integration
clause and the cutback in the program's duration satisfied several of the Committee critics, giving the modified bill an 8-6 margin
when the showdown came on committee approval.
Prior to midsummer, the Administration had not even been able to secure a suitable manager to steer the bill through the
Committee and support it on the Senate floor. The two leading spokesmen for liberal housing legislation, Housing Subcommittee
Chairman John J. Sparkman (D Ala.) and second ranking Subcommittee Democrat Paul H. Douglas (Ill.), both faced election
difficulties in their home states and reportedly feared the political consequences of close association with such controversial
legislation. The choice eventually fell to Edmund S. Muskie (D Maine; an articulate speaker and able parliamentarian, but Muskie
reportedly remained cool to the idea until the Administration agreed to add specific language directing that small towns as well as
large cities receive demonstration cities assistance. Muskie reportedly found this proposal politically attractive because of the
large number of small towns in his native Maine.
Majority Views. The majority report called the demonstration cities program “the most important single proposal in the President's
plan for rebuilding America's cities.” The report said the upshot of the program would be to arrest a “descending spiral confronting
many American cities.”
The coordinated attack on blight envisioned in the demonstrations plan, it said, would “enable the poor and disadvantaged people
who live in these areas to become useful and productive citizens–citizens able to join in the general prosperity this nation now
enjoys.” Although the report indicated that relatively few cities would be able to take part in the program, it said all other cities
would “benefit from the solutions to urban problems developed through the demonstration cities approach.”
The report argued that additional federal aid was needed in the nation's cities and that independent efforts of the cities to help
themselves had been “in large measure self-defeating.” “The more determined the city's efforts to raise funds to meet the need
for increased services,” it said, “the more likely that effort drives its economically affluent citizens to the nearby suburbs…. So the
city becomes, increasingly, a home for the economically deprived, those least able to bear the cost of municipal services.”
2/8/10 2:10 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 9 of 23file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-7…0and%20Metropolitan%20Development%20Act%20of%201966.webarchive
In answer to a frequent question raised during hearings, the report emphasized that the program would not “in any way change
the flow of funds, as among cities, under existing grant-in-aid programs.” The new program, it said, envisioned no priority in the
use of existing grant-in-aid programs for cities participating in demonstration projects. Such projects would be financed by funds
that would normally flow through existing programs, it said, plus the additional demonstration city grants.
As important as the demonstrations plan, the report emphasized, was the program for “incentive” grants to encourage
comprehensive areawide planning. Within the next 20 years, the report estimated, the U.S. metropolitan population would grow by
54 million–“the equivalent of adding five New Yorks or 27 Washingtons.” Careful and effective planning, it said, would “greatly
reduce” the billions in urban aid necessary to accommodate such growth, and would, in addition, “make great contributions to our
goal of a suitable living environment for every American family.”
Minority Views. In a statement of minority views, the four committee Republicans–Bennett (Utah), Tower (Texas), Thurmond
(S.C.), and Hickenlooper (Iowa)–criticized S 3708 as “an expansion of a faltering urban renewal program which will be financed
almost totally with federal funds.” Localities had found it increasingly difficult to raise the required one-third local share of renewal
costs, the statement said, despite “promising tax profits” to be derived from improved property placed on project sites. “One
project created another,” it said, “moving people and businesses to less expensive areas than that to be developed by urban
renewal.”
Although the statement applauded the committee's reduction in the outlays envisioned by the original bill, it said the cut could
hardly be classified as a “redeeming improvement” because the remaining $1.2 billion would be committed at a time when “costs
are skyrocketing and materials and skilled labor are scarce.”
The GOP statement also questioned the necessity of the “incentive” metropolitan planning program. It contended that the
additional 20-percent grants provided under the plan would go to aid advanced areas which “already are well along with their
planning.” Consequently, very little additional planning was likely to result, it said.
S 3711–S Rept 1455.  The Committee combined in an omnibus bill, S 3711, most of the remaining Administration requests, the
Alaska housing program, the plan to aid preservation of historic structures, and various other proposals raised in committee,
including a new program of FHA mortgage insurance on “seasonal” (vacation) housing and a liberalization of existing urban
renewal law to allow localities credit as an urban renewal cost for certain expenditures on civic and cultural centers. The only
major changes in Administration proposals were to drop the plan for direct loan assistance for group medical and dental facilities
while broadening the proposal for FHA mortgage insurance on such facilities to make insurance available for optometrists as well
as medical doctors and dentists.
Floor Action–S 3711
The Senate Aug. 12, by a 61-3 roll-call vote, passed S 3711 and sent the measure to the House. The dissenting votes were cast
by three GOP Members–Norris Cotton (N.H.), Milward L. Simpson (Wyo.), and John J. Williams (Del.). (For voting, see chart p. 970.)
Prior to passing the bill, the Senate accepted two floor amendments sponsored by liberal Republicans. One amendment,
proposed by Jacob K. Javits (R N.Y.), provided $900 million in new authority for college dormitory loans over the following three
fiscal years, 1967–69–$300 million each year. The other, by Thomas H. Kuchel (R Calif.), provided a special new program of FHA
home mortgage loan insurance for riot-torn areas. The loan insurance plan was accepted by voice vote with little discussion, but
the college housing proposal was debated vigorously and at length before being approved by a 35-31 roll call. (See box for
additional details on housing loan program.)
In debate on the college loan plan, Javits argued that a current depletion of funds for college housing loans raised the possibility
that students might be turned away from colleges and universities in the fall of 1967 for lack of adequate housing. The existing
authorization of an annual $300 million had been cancelled for fiscal 1967 under the Participation Sales Act (PL 89-429), he said,
and the below-market (3 percent) interest rate carried under the existing loan program made it likely that only a small part of the
existing $300 million authorization for each of the fiscal years 1968–69 could be committed so long as money markets remained
tight and interest rates high. (Interest rates for the funds made available under the Javits amendment were to be set under a
statutory formula, which currently produced a rate of 4-5/8 percent.)
In reply to Javits' assertions, Edmund S. Muskie (D Maine), the bill's floor manager, contended that adequate funds were available
in the program's revolving fund (made up of loan repayments) and would be supplied. J.W. Fulbright (D Ark.), another opponent of
the amendment, termed the proposal “entirely unnecessary.” “If the President won't spend the money he has now,” Fulbright
added, “why would he spend this additional sum?”
PROVISIONS–As passed by the Senate, S 3711, the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1966, contained the following
major provisions:
FHA Insurance Operations. Authorized a new program of Federal Housing Administration (FHA) home mortgage insurance for
loans to finance homes designed for seasonal (vacation) use. Limited mortgage amounts for the program to a level of $15,000 or
75 percent of the appraised value of the property.
Waived requirements for economic soundness of loans insured under normal FHA operations to provide a special new home
mortgage insurance program for areas in which violence or civil disorders had occurred or were threatened. Made a property
eligible for such assistance when it was deemed an acceptable risk “giving due consideration to the need for providing adequate
housing for families of low and moderate income in such (an) area.”
Increased from $11,000 to $12,500 the mortgage limitation on single-family home purchases under the FHA mortgage insurance
program for low- and moderate-income and displaced families. (The program was widely known as Section 221 Housing–its
2/8/10 2:10 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 10 of 23file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…0and%20Metropolitan%20Development%20Act%20of%201966.webarchive
program for low- and moderate-income and displaced families. (The program was widely known as Section 221 Housing–its
designation under the authorizing legislation–the National Housing Act.) Also increased the mortgage limit on a two-family
residence under the program from $18,000 to $20,000.
Medical Facilities. Authorized a new program of FHA insurance for loans to finance group practice of medicine, dentistry or
optometry. Limited such mortgages to a period of 25 years and to an amount not to exceed the lesser of 90 percent of value of
the facility or $5 million.
Urban Renewal. Authorized localities to credit as part of their required share of urban renewal costs a total of up to 25 percent of
expenditures on public facilities for cultural, exhibition or civic purposes if such facilities were in or near the urban renewal project
area and were found to contribute materially to the renewal plan. Limited such credit to facilities on which construction began
within three years prior to enactment of S 3711.
Historic Structures. Amended the basic urban renewal law (Title I of the Housing Act of 1949) to provide for recognition of
historic and architectural preservation in urban renewal plans and to authorize such planning and actual preservation activities as
eligible urban renewal costs.
Authorized a new program of grants to states and local public bodies of up to 50 percent of costs for acquisition, restoration and
improvement of areas, sites and structures of historical or architectural value in urban areas.
Authorized the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to establish a $500,000 per year, three-year program of
fellowships for graduate architectural and other training in historic preservation.
Alaska Housing Aid. Authorized appropriation of $10 million for a new program of federal grants and loans to the state of Alaska
to assist in providing housing and related facilities to natives and other needy persons. Limited grants to 75 percent of aggregate
building costs up to a per unit maximum of $7,500.
Public Housing. Amended the Housing Act of 1937 to permit local housing authorities to lease or acquire planned new
developments, as well as existing dwellings, for public housing use. Also amended the 1937 Act to allow leasing of private
housing for public housing use over indefinite periods rather than the existing three-year limitation.
Federal Installations Closings. Amended the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965 (PL 89-117) to provide specifically
that the Defense Secretary, under a PL 89-117 program for acquisition of private property at or near disbanded military
installations, could reimburse up to 90 percent of losses incurred in private sale of, or foreclosure against, such properties.
Restricted the use of funds for such purposes to amounts specifically authorized in annual defense construction laws.
College Housing. Authorized an additional $300 million in college housing loans for each of the fiscal years 1967–69 at interest
rates set by a statutory interest rate formula (which currently produced a rate of 4-5/8 percent). (Note: Existing law provided an
annual college housing loan authorization of $300 million (available at a flat 3-percent rate) for each of the fiscal years 1967–69:
however, the authorization for the fiscal year 1967 had been cancelled by the Participation Sales Act (PL 89-429). The new loan
authority in S 3711 replaced the cancelled authorization for fiscal 1967 and provided an additional $300 million for each of the
fiscal years 1968 and 1969. As a result, the total authorization for fiscal 1967 was $300 million and for 1968–69, $600 million
each year.)
Savings and Loan Mergers. Authorized the Federal Home Loan Bank Board to approve mergers of insured savings and loan
associations with holding companies or their affiliates if such action was deemed necessary to prevent a default in the acquired
institution.
Amendments Accepted
Aug. 11–A. Willis Robertson (D Va.)– John G. Tower (R Texas)–Credit expenditures on specific building projects in 19 selected
U.S. cities as part of the city's required share of urban renewal costs. Voice vote.
Thomas H. Kuchel (R Calif.)–Waive requirements for economic soundness of loans insured under regular FHA operations to
provide a special new home mortgage insurance program for areas in which violence or civil disorders had occurred or were
threatened; make a property eligible for such assistance when it was deemed an acceptable risk “giving due consideration to the
need for providing adequate housing for families of low and moderate income in such (an) area.” Voice.
Jacob K. Javits (R N.Y.)–Broaden the program of rent supplements authorized under the Housing and Urban Development Act of
1965 (PL 89-117) to aid low-income families living in housing financed with state or local assistance. (The existing program was
limited to low-income families in housing financed by private, federally insured loans.) Voice.
Joseph S. Clark (D Pa.)–Direct the Department of Housing and Urban Development to conduct studies, surveys, research and
analyses on methods to stimulate “intelligent planning and development of viable urban centers.” Voice.
John Stennis (D Miss.)–Delete from the bill a provision amending PL 89-117 to direct, rather than permit, the Defense
Department to acquire private properties for FHA disposal when servicemen or other employees of federal installations certified
that they were unable to sell their homes on reasonable terms. Also eliminate language providing full compensation for losses
incurred in private sale or foreclosures of such properties. Standing vote.
Tower–Amend PL 89-117 to provide specifically that the Defense Secretary, under the base closures housing acquisition
program, could reimburse up to 90 percent of losses incurred in private sale of, or foreclosure against, properties; restrict use of
funds for such purposes to amounts specifically authorized in annual defense construction acts. Voice.
Aug. 12–John Sherman Cooper (R Ky.)–Repeal a provision of the Housing Act of 1964 (PL 88-560) directing sale of an FHA-
2/8/10 2:10 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 11 of 23file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…0and%20Metropolitan%20Development%20Act%20of%201966.webarchive
acquired rental housing project in Paducah, Ky., to a local development council for use as a dormitory by Paducah Junior
College. (The college had indicated that private land donations were adequate to meet its needs.) Voice.
Javits–Authorize an additional $300 million in college housing loans for each of the fiscal years 1967–69 at interest rates set by a
statutory interest rate formula (which currently produced a rate of 4-5/8 percent). Roll-call vote, 35-31.
Floor Action–S 3708
The Senate Aug. 19 passed the demonstration cities bill by a 53-22 roll-call vote and sent it to the House. (For voting, see chart
p. 973.)
Prior to passing S 3708, the Senate by a 27–53 roll call defeated a move by John G. Tower (R Texas) to delete all funds to
implement the demonstrations program, leaving the measure a $24 million planning bill.
In calling for acceptance of his amendment, Tower argued that such large domestic spending programs should be deferred until
“the days when spending is more in keeping with the supply and cost of money.” By the end of the bill's two planning years, he
said, “we can hope…Viet Nam will only be a blot on history's picture, that the dangers of inflation will have passed, and that we
will be in a far better fiscal position to take up billion-dollar expenditures for new programs.” Senate Minority Leader Everett
McKinley Dirksen (R Ill.), who directed his opposition to the scope of the program itself, added that the plan had “all the prospects
of becoming one of the greatest boondoggles this country has ever witnessed. It will be shot through with waste and corruption
and goodness knows what…before we get through.”
Edmund S. Muskie (D Maine), the bill's floor manager, retorted that Republicans had invalidated the cost argument by voting for
such inflationary, but noncontroversial programs as college housing. Muskie challenged GOP proponents of the amendment to
support the full bill as a measure to “deal with the most explosive domestic issue on the American scene today.”
In other action on amendments, the Senate by voice vote accepted seven floor proposals, including important amendments by
Tower to limit a single state's share of demonstration cities and “incentive” metropolitan planning grants to 15 percent of total
authorizations. None of the seven proposals was debated.
Voting for passage of the bill were 14 Republicans and 39 Democrats. Opposed were 13 GOP Members and 9 Democrats.
Muskie and other strategists had believed that the passage vote would be far closer; one headcount showed a margin of only 41-
39 in favor. However, numerous Senators expected to oppose the bill were absent for the final vote, and others apparently were
swayed by Muskie's argument.
PROVISIONS–The final Senate version of S 3708 contained the provisions of the bill reported by the Banking and Currency
Committee and the amendments accepted on the Senate floor. (See p. 218 and below.)
Amendments Accepted
Aug. 18–George McGovern (D S.D.)–Make clear that county governments could be an eligible instrumentality for administering city
demonstration projects under the Act. Voice vote.
Aug. 19–Frank Carlson (R Kan.)–Add language specifically providing that state Governors could appoint state agencies or
instrumentalities of counties or other political subdivisions to administer the urban information and technical assistance centers
established by the bill. Voice.
Edward M. Kennedy (D Mass.)–Direct the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to seek to ensure the “greatest
practicable cooperation and coordination” among the various urban information centers. Voice.
John G. Tower (R Texas)–Limit the amount of funds committed to any one state for approved demonstration city projects to 15
percent of the total authorization for such purposes. Voice.
Tower–Limit a state's share of “incentive” planning grants to 15 percent of authorization. Voice.
Jacob K. Javits (R N.Y.)–Add to the bill a new title, Title IV, amending the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965 (PL 89-
117) to make available until six months after enactment of S 3708 an unappropriated authorization of $100,000 for a study to
determine methods of insulating homes located near airports to diminish the effect of aircraft noise. (Such authority under existing
law expired Aug. 10, 1966.) Voice.
Javits–Amend the declaration of purpose for the demonstration cities program to stipulate that maximum reliance should be
placed on “private initiative and enterprise.” Voice.
Amendment Rejected
Aug. 19–John G. Tower (R Texas)–Delete the bill's authorization of $400 million in demonstration city action funds for fiscal 1968
and $500 million in such funds for fiscal 1969; also provide language which, in effect, would prohibit commitment of the bill's $250
million authorization for urban renewal funds; specifically retain the planning authorization of an annual $12 million for fiscal 1967
and 1968, and direct the HUD Secretary to report to Congress by June 1 of each of the calendar years 1967 and 1968 on local
interest and eligibility for demonstration projects and estimates of program costs. Roll-call vote, 27–53.
House
2/8/10 2:10 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 12 of 23file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…0and%20Metropolitan%20Development%20Act%20of%201966.webarchive
COMMITTEE–Banking and Currency.
HELD HEARINGS–Feb. 28 to March 25 on the Administration's demonstration cities bill (HR 12341), the GOP substitute
demonstration cities plan (HR 13048) and on the three other Administration bills comprising the President's 1966 city
development program: HR 12939, providing “incentive” metropolitan planning grants and mortgage assistance for “new towns”
development; HR 13064, extending and broadening certain existing programs; and HR 9256, providing FHA mortgage insurance
and direct loans to finance and equip facilities for group medical and dental practice.
TESTIMONY–Feb. 28–Robert C. Weaver, in his first Congressional appearance as Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development, presented a detailed description of each of the bills under study and outlined the Administration's views.
Demonstration Cities Act. Calling the city demonstrations the “most important” of the President's proposals, Weaver said HR
12341 had “focused the attention of Congress and the entire nation on the most critical domestic problem facing the United
States–the need to improve the quality of urban life.”
Weaver said the assistance provided by the bill would be given to “cities of all sizes and in all parts of the country.” The HUD
Secretary warned, however, that the program would be out of immediate reach for many communities because of its strenuous
eligibility requirements. The only qualifying areas, Weaver said, would be those “willing and able to bring together the public and
private bodies whose joint action is necessary to solve their problems–willing to commit fully their energies and resources–willing
to undertake actions which will have widespread and profound effects on the physical and social structure of the city.”
Turning to the question of federal control, Weaver emphasized that “this will be a local program.” He said all assistance under the
program would be channeled into a “city demonstration agency,” established or designated by the local governing body to
administer the program. Weaver said that while a federal coordinator would be designated for each approved area, his function
would be to provide “liaison services.” “The coordinator will have no authority over local officials,” Weaver said, “and no power
over the programs and activities of that locality.”
Under questioning by committee members, Weaver conceded that the $2.3 billion estimated cost of the program reflected only
the cost of the new 80-percent federal grants contemplated under the legislation and not the cost of other federal grants under
existing programs, the local share of city demonstrations, or private undertakings under the demonstrations plan. Weaver
estimated that the program's total impact would be in the range of $5 to $10 billion.
Urban Development Act. HR 12939, Weaver said, would provide for more effective metropolitan planning by increasing
assistance to cities and other state and local bodies “that actually develop projects and administer local zoning and subdivision
controls consistent with metropolitan plans.” Areas qualifying under the program, he said, would be eligible for supplementary
grants (in addition to other federal assistance) of up to 20 percent of the costs of such projects as urban mass transit, water and
sewer facilities and preparation of recreational and other open-space land areas. “With continued encouragement under this
program,” Weaver said “about 75 metropolitan areas, having an aggregate population of around 60 million, might qualify for
supplemental grants by the end of five years.”
Of equal emphasis in Weaver's testimony was the program for FHA mortgage insurance for developers of entire new towns and
new communities. Enactment of this provision, Weaver said, would result in development of “large tracts of good land on a scale
that will provide a wide range of urban facilities and services.” This, he added, would facilitate “such benefits as cheaper land
costs, a better balance of varied housing and other land use, and reduced traffic.”
Weaver also endorsed extension of the urban mass transportation program and new grants for urban information centers.
Housing and Urban Development Amendments. Weaver's testimony on HR 13064 centered on a proposal for short-term use
of private dwellings to accommodate persons eligible for low-rent public housing programs. Such utilization of private housing,
Weaver said, resulted in costs “substantially lower” than could be achieved when public housing authorities planned and
constructed the housing themselves. Assistance to newly planned projects, he added, would provide “additional stimulus for much
greater participation by private building interests in the low-rent housing program.”
Medical Facilities. Weaver also endorsed HR 9256, declaring that construction of the group medical and dental facilities
envisioned by the measure would “assure the most effective use of our limited supply of doctors and medically trained personnel.”
March 1–Former Rep. Hugh J. Addonizio (D N.J. 1949–62), mayor of Newark, N.J., endorsed the city demonstrations proposal on
behalf of the U.S. Conference of Mayors. Addonizio said, however, that the $2.3 billion envisioned for demonstration city grants
over the five action years of the program should be increased to $10 billion.
Wilbur J. Cohen, Under Secretary of Health. Education and Welfare, testified in favor of HR 9256, stating that the clinic
construction envisioned under the bill was a major part of the Administration's plan to implement recent legislation (PL 88-129,
PL 88-581) increasing medical manpower. (1963 Almanac, p. 216; 1964 Almanac, p. 244)
Passage of the measure, Cohen contended, would remove a “major obstruction” to the initiation of group medical practice. At
present, he added, only physicians “well established in a community” were able to obtain necessary loans for establishing group
facilities. Under questioning by Rep. Thomas L. Ashley (D Ohio), a member of the Subcommittee, Cohen said, however, that no
figures later than 1959 were available on the number of group practices financed by private loans. Ashley retorted, “I don't know
how you can come into the committee and say there's a need.”
Detroit Mayor Jerome P. Cavanagh, also testifying on behalf of the U.S. Conference of Mayors, called the city demonstrations
proposal a “landmark” but said it was “important not to try to set up a national competition which might only stimulate envy and
unhappiness among those cities not designated….” Allocation of grants, Cavanagh said, should be on a “first-come, first-served
basis,” and there should be “no limit on how many cities may attempt to qualify.” Turning to the funding of the program,
2/8/10 2:10 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 13 of 23file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…0and%20Metropolitan%20Development%20Act%20of%201966.webarchive
basis,” and there should be “no limit on how many cities may attempt to qualify.” Turning to the funding of the program,
Cavanagh suggested the bill be broadened to authorize use of urban renewal funds as a supplement for program planning
outlays and to permit immediate availability of the entire $2.3 billion in demonstration grants envisioned under HR 12341 and the
$2.9 billion, four-year authorization for urban renewal provided under the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965 (PL 89-
117).
Former Rep. John V. Lindsay (R N.Y. 1959–65), mayor of New York City, another witness for the U.S. Conference of Mayors, said
the city demonstrations, “if adequately funded,” could provide “the dramatic breakthrough that we have long sought in dealing with
our urban ills.” The proposed level of $2.3 billion in demonstration grants, he said, would “limit sharply both the number of cities
that may participate in the program and the scale and impact it can have on the individual communities which do… participate.”
Lindsay also urged that the demonstrations exclude limits on the amount of aid given to New York City. “While the concern of
others that New York not gobble up entire programs is understandable,” he said, “it seems fairer to me that Congress provide
programs as large as the problems–and in the case of New York City, the problems are of unparalleled magnitude.” In response
to questions, Lindsay estimated that an effective demonstration project in New York City alone would require a minimum of $1
billion for urban renewal and $1 billion for social services.
March 3–Boris Shishkin, secretary of the AFL-CIO housing subcommittee, termed the city demonstrations “an important and
auspicious step in the right direction.” Shishkin said the proposed funding of the program was “unduly modest,” however, and
should be enlarged to “make possible a truly effective onslaught on urban blight in entire cities and towns large and small.”
Shishkin also endorsed the three related Administration bills but said that the Administration's package should be broadened to
accelerate public housing construction from an annual rate of 30,000 units to a level of 125,000.
March 4–Glenn E. Bennett, executive director of the Atlanta Region Metropolitan Planning Commission, said the program of
“incentive” planning grants established under HR 12939 provided “encouragement for the translation of metropolitan plans into
action” and also “made it possible for certain projects stalled for lack of funds to go forward.” Bennett also endorsed the bill's
provision to extend mass transportation programs, stating that development of rapid transit in large cities required assurance that
“substantial assistance” would be forthcoming over a period of years.
Harold F. Wise, chairman of the national legislative committee of the American Institute of Planners, endorsed the
Administration's new proposals but criticized their dichotomy into two separate bills–the Demonstration Cities Act (HR 12341) and
Urban Development Act (HR 12939). Wise said the demarcation was “as if the Administration were proposing two separate types
of programs for two different constituencies, the older central cities and the growing suburbs.” Wise said a demonstration confined
to the central city alone would be inadequate. “A metropolitan area must be viewed as a whole–central city and suburb. These
are interdependent parts.” Wise also said the office of federal coordinator for a demonstration project should be “tied in” with the
HR 12939 proposal for metropolitan information centers and duties of the coordinator extended to provide a “clearing house for
all federal programs in the metropolitan area.”
Chicago Mayor Richard J. Daley, also testifying on behalf of the U.S. Conference of Mayors, said it was “obvious that funds for
planning must be substantially in-increased so as to provide an opportunity for every city to develop a demonstration program.”
The “only way to arrive at a reasonable estimate of total funds needed.” Daley said, would be “by examining the plans submitted
by the various cities.”
March 7–Paul Davidoff, professor of urban planning at Hunter College, endorsed HR 12341 in behalf of the Americans for
Democratic Action (ADA) but proposed numerous amendments. Major changes suggested by Davidoff included: (1) an increase
in demonstration city grants from $2.3 billion to $20 billion; (2) additional program standards to require a participating city, by
1968, to present plans on “how to achieve no later than 1972, decent, safe and sanitary housing, and by 1975, a suitable living
environment for all its citizens”; (3) adoption of language drafted by subcommittee members Henry S. Reuss (D Wis.), Thomas L.
Ashley (D Ohio) and William S. Moorhead (D Pa.), to give priority in demonstration grants to cities with “economic and social
pressures” such as high crime rates, widespread poverty and substandard housing; (4) broadening of coverage to make grants
available to more than one neighborhood in eligible cities; and (5) a requirement that cities take over property of “slum landlords”
who failed to meet local housing codes.
Davidoff also endorsed the HR 12939 provisions for federal mortgage insurance and loans to encourage development of entire
“new towns” and “new communities,” His support for mortgage insurance, however, was contingent on an additional requirement
that at least one-third of all federally insured land development be priced at levels within the means of low-income families.
Frederic A. Fay, president of the National Assn. of Housing and Redevelopment Officials (NAHRO), endorsed HR 12341 but
called for extension of city demonstration projects to noncontiguous areas. This, he said, would allow cities to present “truly
citywide proposals to treat all their blighted areas….”
Fay also endorsed the “new towns” proposals but called for a study to develop a “comprehensive concept and policy” evaluating
such issues as the forms of local government, land-use controls and relationship to central cities. Pending formulation of over-all
policy, he said, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development should make a finding that a proposed new community was
consistent with planning in contiguous metropolitan areas and would “not have an adverse effect on the central city.”
In other parts of his testimony, Fay called for numerous amendments to existing housing law, including major proposals to
modernize and update older public housing developments and assist nonprofit housing sponsors to attain a greater supply of
housing for low- and moderate-income families.
March 8–Jack McDonald, chairman of the Wayne County (Detroit), Mich., Board of County Supervisors, endorsed HR 12939 in
behalf of the National Assn. of Counties. He termed “unrealistically small,” however, the bill's first year outlays of $25 million for
“incentive” planning grants. McDonald did not take a position on the city demonstrations, stating that titles of HR 12939 and HR
12341 “would appear to perpetuate the undesirable pattern of fragmentation of urban areas by having one program for the core-
central city and the other for the suburbs.”
2/8/10 2:10 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 14 of 23file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…0and%20Metropolitan%20Development%20Act%20of%201966.webarchive
Larry Blackmon, president of the National Assn. of Home Builders (NAHB), endorsed the Administration proposals with the
exception of the “new towns” provisions. Mortgage insurance for new communities, Blackmon said, would provide nothing that
could not be accomplished under existing legislation “except possibly to put federal credit behind a few projects of huge
corporations.” Turning to the related proposal of land development loans to state agencies, Blackmon said this would “inject
Government deeply, irrevocably, and on an inevitably expanding scale into the business of land development,” which he said was
functioning effectively under private enterprise.
March 9–Nathaniel S. Keith, president of the National Housing Conference, endorsed HR 12341 but called for availability of
demonstration grants to “all qualified cities… in the order of their application.” In addition, Keith suggested that the entire $2.3
billion in supplemental program funds be made available on enactment and the program be bolstered by a $1 billion annual
increase in urban renewal outlays for each of the next three years. On the “new towns” provisions, Keith endorsed the proposal
for land development loans to public agencies but opposed mortgage insurance for private developers. Keith said the objective of
holding land prices to levels suitable for low-income families could be better accommodated through public control.
March 10–Alan L. Emlen, a spokesman for the National Assn. of Real Estate Boards (NAREB), testified against HR 12341. “The
fundamental weakness in the bill,” he said, “is that it seeks solely by means of increased federal grants to induce the cities to do
that which they should have been doing” in past years. Emlen added that it was “time to stop attempting to spoon feed the
Congress and the people in the area of federal assistance to urban communities. We should recognize that a gap in local
initiative cannot be bridged by money alone.” Emlen also opposed the “new towns” provisions, declaring that the proposals were
“unnecessary,” represented an “unwarranted intrusion of Government in the control of the future use of land” and “would lead
ultimately to the federalization of the nation's communities.”
James F. Steiner, a spokesman for the Chamber of Commerce of the United States, also opposed HR 12341, stating that the bill
was based on the “highly questionable assumption” that cities did not have adequate resources to solve their own problems. The
difficulty, Steiner said, was “not that the resources to do the job are absent from the cities but that these resources are not
always mobilized effectively.” Steiner also criticized the provision of the bill creating a federal coordinator, whom he characterized
as a “commissar or czar who would possess vaguely defined powers.” A better approach than federal “crash programs,” Steiner
said, was afforded by private urban studies “involving local talents, resources and initiative….”
March 11–James F. Doherty, spokesman for the AFL-CIO, endorsed HR 9256. He said the bill's assistance to group medical
practice would “significantly help to lower the cost and to raise the quality of medical care in this country.” “Solo, individual
practice in medicine is not only inefficient, but of relatively poor quality, as well,” Doherty said. Because of its built-in standards
for evaluating performance, he added, group practice would be far more likely to result in “quality medical care.”
James Brindle, president of the Health Insurance Plan of Greater New York, endorsed HR 9256 on behalf of the Group Health
Assn. of America. Brindle said the bill would rectify a situation in which nonprofit group health plans had found it difficult to secure
venture capital for clinic development, particularly when they wished to locate in economically deprived or rural neighborhoods.
Dr. Harvey Renger, spokesman for the American Medical Assn. (AMA), testified against HR 9256. Renger listed four contentions
as the basis for AMA opposition: (1) that physicians had no difficulty in obtaining conventional loans; (2) that the number of group
practices had increased by 350 percent in the last five years without federal financing; (3) that direct loans were an unwarranted
encroachment on private enterprise; and (4) that the bill was discriminatory in providing preferential assistance to prepaid closed
panel group practices (practices established and controlled by consumer cooperatives or nonprofit, prepaid health plans).
Dr. John B. Wilson, spokesman for the American Dental Assn., also opposed HR 9256. He said the bill might “prove a deterrent
to the high quality of dental and medical practice in the United States.” “HR 9256 obviously is intended to spur the establishment
of nonprofessionally owned and controlled closed panel practices,” Wilson said, “It is our conviction that the proliferation of such
facilities would tend to lower the quality of health care in the nation.”
March 14–Denver Mayor Thomas G. Currigan, testifying on behalf of the U.S. Conference of Mayors, said that his and other
western cities viewed the city demonstration proposals “as an insurance policy…. an investment in the future of our cities.” Noting
that Denver and most other urban areas of the West were “relatively young.” Currigan said the demonstrations provided an
opportunity to “arrest blight, to rehabilitate rather than demolish, and to grow according to comprehensive plans, thereby creating
cities of lasting beauty and sound community environments.”
March 16–Ewart W. Goodwin, president of the Mortgage Bankers Assn. of America, opposed HR 12341. He said the bill “seems
to be aimed at weakening the incentives for strong, intelligent, local government bodies at the very time in our national
development when we need them the most.” Goodwin also opposed HR 9256 and the provisions of HR 12939 for federal
mortgage insurance and loans to encourage development of entire new towns and new communities. Goodwin deemed the
assistance provided under both measures “unnecessary” and added that the new towns provision raised the possibility of a
“serious wave of land speculation.”
March 18–Seattle Mayor J.D. Braman testified in favor of the provision of HR 12939 to extend urban mass transportation
programs, but proposed an amendment to permit use of program funds for planning as well as the presently authorized
construction of new transit facilities. By expanding the program to include planning, Braman said, “many additional cities would be
able to get started on solving this most pressing need. And the demands for speed are as critical as the demands for money….
Each year that passes, the cities must turn to alternate solutions which are not only inadequate and even dangerous to the long-
range health of the city, but could complicate the metropolitan situation so much that solutions would become prohibitively
expensive.”
John D. Morris, an assistant vice president of the Pennsylvania Railroad Co., called for a significant broadening, as well as
extension, of the mass transportation provisions. In view of the 90-percent federal share currently available for local communities
for interstate highway construction, Morris said, the Committee should consider an increase in the two-thirds federal share for
2/8/10 2:10 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 15 of 23file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…0and%20Metropolitan%20Development%20Act%20of%201966.webarchive
for interstate highway construction, Morris said, the Committee should consider an increase in the two-thirds federal share for
mass transportation grants. In addition, he said, a much larger figure, in the range of $150 million, should be substituted for the
proposed appropriation of $95 million for fiscal 1968. To complete a transit project in Philadelphia alone, Morris asserted, would
cost “several hundred million dollars.”
March 25–Blue Carstenson and Walter A. Hasty Jr., spokesmen for the National Farmers Union, endorsed HR 12341, but called
for programs of “equal magnitude” for rural areas. Terming their proposals a “rural renaissance,” they called for numerous rural
development and renewal programs. They also urged that Congress provide a minimum wage for farm laborers and keep interest
rates low for housing of rural residents with low and moderate incomes.
RELATED DEVELOPMENT–April 4–In a statement filed with the House Subcommittee on Housing, the National Assn. of
Manufacturers (NAM) criticized the demonstration cities bill as a “super-program to be superimposed upon existing programs, a
superstructure to be erected upon a superstructure” and a “highly unnecessary, extremely costly” program which gave “no
assurance of commensurate results.” Urging a “private alternative” to the proposed legislation, the NAM statement asserted that
housing improvement in recent years had “virtually all been accomplished by private construction, rehabilitation and demolition
efforts financed by massive amounts of private funds….”
Committee Action
The House Banking and Currency Committee reported two housing and urban development bills. In mid-July, the Committee
approved its own omnibus bill (HR 15890), similar to the original Administration package, but only after intensive Administration
lobbying. However, after the Senate Aug. 19 passed a more restricted demonstration cities bill, the Committee reconvened in late
August and combined the two Senate bills (S 3708, S 3711) into an amended version of S 3708 and made some changes in the
enlarged bill.
Initial Committee Action
The Committee July 15 reported a clean bill (HR 15890–H Rept 1699), an omnibus version of the four Administration bills under
consideration. The measure was approved by the Housing Subcommittee June 23 by a 7-3 vote. The three voting against it were
Robert G. Stephens Jr. (D Ga.), William B. Widnall (R N.J.), the Committee's ranking Republican, and Florence P. Dwyer (R N.J.). Paul
A. Fino (R N.Y.) abstained and James Harvey (R Mich.) was not present.
The full Committee approved the bill June 28 by an 18-8 vote after adopting four amendments to the Subcommittee version.
Three of those slightly modified language applying the Davis-Bacon Act to the bill's provisions. The Act set minimum wage rates
for workers employed on federally assisted projects. The fourth amendment provided for the eventual construction of a new office
for the Federal Home Loan Bank Board.
The Committee rejected two amendments. By a 13–19 vote it defeated an amendment offered by Rep. Richard L. Ottinger (D N.Y.)
which would have limited appropriations authorizations to $12 million for planning purposes, eliminating the open-ended
authorization for future appropriations. Ottinger said he supported the principle of the bill but did “not think at this time of intense
inflationary pressures we should be giving authorization for expenditures in a program that is being talked of in terms of $2.3
billion.”
The Committee by a 10–21 vote rejected an amendment offered by Rep. William B. Widnall (R N.J.) which would have required
cities qualifying as demonstration cities to use all urban renewal funds from other federal prorams for low- and moderate-rent
housing, and would have required nondemonstration cities to use all residential urban renewal funds for similar housing.
Changes in Administration Proposals. HR 15890 followed most of the original Administration proposals with the exception of
minor changes in the demonstration cities plan. While retaining the major provision of the program–the special grants amounting
to 80 percent of the nonfederal costs of demonstration projects–the revised bill reduced from 90 to 80 percent the federal share of
project planning funds and dropped a provision creating the post of “federal coordinator” to provide liaison services. In place of
the coordinators, “metropolitan expediters” were to be available to coordinate federal programs when a participating city
requested their services. In a broadening of the program, the bill authorized an additional $600 million in urban renewal funds,
earmarking the outlays for cities chosen for demonstration projects. The additional renewal allowance was requested by the
Administration after mayors of some large cities expressed fears that existing renewal outlays would be channeled into
demonstration projects, thereby draining funds away from cities not participating in the demonstration program.
The bill did not include provisions relating to mass transit, embodied in HR 12939, which the Committee May 9 reported
separately in another clean bill (HR 14810). The transit bill was ultimately enacted in its Senate version, S 3700. (See p. 802.)
Administration Lobbying. Approval of the omnibus bill came only after an intensive Administration lobbying effort following
reports that the Subcommittee was ready to reduce the $2.3-billion demonstration cities program to $12 million in project
planning funds and to eliminate both the new towns and metropolitan planning programs.
An Administration source close to the issue told Congressional Quarterly June 13 that such Subcommittee action was forestalled
when Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey June 1 telephoned Subcommittee Chairman William A. Barrett (D Pa.) and strongly
implied the Administration would not support a planning bill. At the time of the Vice President's call, the source said, the
Subcommittee tentatively had approved the diluted measure.
“The Administration decided it couldn't live with a mere ‘silhouette’ program,” the source said. “‘Demonstration cities' was planned
to be an ongoing program for the next six years. The funds for it have been provided in the Budget. A truncated bill just wouldn't
be acceptable.”
The $12-million planning bill was the product of a compromise between Barrett and several Subcommittee Republicans. The
2/8/10 2:10 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 16 of 23file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…0and%20Metropolitan%20Development%20Act%20of%201966.webarchive
The $12-million planning bill was the product of a compromise between Barrett and several Subcommittee Republicans. The
source said Barrett and other Democrats feared the original measure could never pass the House during a year when the costs
of a war in Asia and various domestic programs were a major concern.
Subcommittee sources later said the panel reversed itself and accepted the full bill because of assurances that the Administration
could obtain the votes for passage and because of the Administration's decision to ask for additional urban renewal funds, a
request which placated big city mayors.
Committee Reconvenes, Accepts Senate Version
After the Senate passed its bill (S 3708), which provided a more restricted demonstration cities program than the President
requested ($924 million over fiscal 1967–69 compared to the requested six-year program–1967–72–and an estimated $2.3 billion
cost), the Administration requested Barrett to reconvene the Housing Subcommittee and accept the Senate's approach. The
Subcommittee was reconvened by Barrett Aug. 25 and late in the day approved S 3708 by a 9-1 vote with amendments that
turned the measure into an omnibus housing bill. The major amendment was to add to the bill many of the provisions of S 3711,
the separate Senate bill which included provisions on FHA insurance operations medical facilities, mortgage insurance, urban
renewal costs and other subjects. The Subcommittee made some changes in the Senate bill (see below). The one vote against
the bill was cast by Paul A. Fino (R N.Y.). Florence P. Dwyer (R N.J.) abstained and James Harvey (R Mich.) was not present for
the vote.
The full Committee Sept. 1 approved the bill by a 23–8 vote.
Changes in Senate Bills. In its major changes from the legislation passed by the Senate, S 3708 as approved by the Housing
Subcommittee restored the Administration's controversial “new towns” plan and dropped the Senate allotment of an additional
$900 million over fiscal 1967–69 for college housing loans. In other changes, the Subcommittee knocked out the Senate
provisions for FHA mortgage insurance on “seasonal” (vacation) housing and housing for riot-torn areas, dropped Senate
language placing a priority for demonstration cities assistance on new programs not previously assisted by federal funds, and
broadened an S 3711 provision to allow 50, rather than 19, U.S. cities to credit expenditures on specific building projects as part
of the city's required share of urban renewal costs. The full Committee subsequently deleted the provision for all 50 cities, but
approved the other Subcommittee changes.
Amended Bili, Reported
The Banking and Currency Committee reported S 3708 with amendments Sept. 1 (H Rept 1931).
Majority Views. Demonstration city outlays authorized by the compromise bill, the report said, would be “adequate” to fund the
program for the contemplated two-year action period. During that time, it added, the program would be under continuous
Congressional review and, if proven successful, could be extended at a later date with a “continued reasonable annual rate of
funding.” (Majority views on other aspects of the bill closely paralleled those included in the Senate Committee report on S 3708.
See p. 218.)
Minority Views. In a statement of minority views, eight of the 11 Republican members of the Committee contended that final
costs of S 3708 could “well be 30 times” the bill's new price tag. In testimony before the Housing Subcommittee, the GOP
Members said, 11 U.S. mayors had placed their needs for the program at a minimum of $8 billion. “We are once again faced with
the situation,” they concluded, “where our ivory tower specialists in the Department (of Housing and Urban Development), secure
and isolated in their cloistered retreats, made their paper research calculations, read the latest news dispatches on violent
demonstrations, and too hastily produced a solution–ideal in concept, but short on practicality and void of intelligence.” The three
GOP Members who did not sign the statement were William B. Widnall (N.J.), Seymour Halpern (N.Y.) and James Harvey (Mich.).
Supplemental, Other Views. Statements of supplemental views on the bill were submitted by Widnall and Paul A. Fino (R N.Y.).
Widnall called for amendment of the bill to set a priority in the existing urban renewal program to emphasize the needs of low-
and moderate-income families, while Fino criticized the measure for giving federal housing and education officials “dictatorial
powers over city living patterns.”
Individual, Separate Views. In statements of individual views, Florence P. Dwyer (R N.J.) and Burt L. Talcott (R Calif.) filed
statements calling for amendment of the bill to require the holding of a public referendum on proposed urban renewal projects in
communities with populations of 150,000 or less. W.E. Brock III (R Tenn.) criticized the measure as a “hypocritical” device to gain
control of local governments. Del Clawson (R Calif.) and Chester L. Mize (R Kan.) termed the program unnecessary because of a
wide variety of overlapping federal programs already in existence.
In separate views on demonstration cities, Halpern said that, despite reservations, he considered the program “desperately
needed to spur rehabilitation of blighted areas of our cities.” The special needs of urban areas, he said, “call for the physical and
social reform provided through the demonstration cities program. The problems are urgent; the program should begin
immediately.”
Republican Policy Committee Views
Prior to floor action on S 3708, the House Republican Policy Committee Sept. 28 issued a statement criticizing the bill for
granting the HUD Secretary what it said was almost absolute control of the demonstration cities and “incentive” metropolitan
planning grants programs and almost total authority to administer the areawide planning requirement. Upshot of these provisions,
it said, would be to cast the Secretary in the role of a “super mayor.”
In another criticism, the GOP statement contended that the strict federal control envisioned under Title II, the bill's metropolitan
planning title, “could become the foundation for such things as school busing, pairing, teacher assignments and creation of
2/8/10 2:10 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 17 of 23file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…0and%20Metropolitan%20Development%20Act%20of%201966.webarchive
planning title, “could become the foundation for such things as school busing, pairing, teacher assignments and creation of
metropolitan-wide school districts…” Use of the bill's incentive planning grants was contemplated for such purposes, it said,
under new legislation entitled the “Equal Educational Opportunity Act of 1967,” allegedly being drawn up by the U.S. Office of
Education.
Also coming under criticism were the bill's new towns provision and the new program of mortgage assistance to finance and equip
facilities for group medical, dental and optometrical practice. The new towns plan, it said, was “still another encroachment by the
federal bureaucracy upon the functions of local government,” while the group practice mortgage program was an unnecessary
scheme that the Administration hoped would be “overlooked and quietly passed while attention is focused on the other
provisions.”
Floor Action
The House Oct. 14, by a 178–141 (R 16–81; D 162–60) roll-call vote, passed S 3708 with amendments and sent the measure to
conference with the Senate. (For voting, see chart p. 930.)
Before passage, the House by a 149–175 (R 85–11; D 64–164) roll call rejected a motion by W.E. Brock III (R Tenn.) to
recommit the bill to the Banking and Currency Committee with instructions to delete the $900 million authorization for
demonstration city projects (but not the $24 million for planning of the projects), and the entire metropolitan planning title (Title II).
The House earlier by nonrecord votes had rejected floor amendments by Brock to eliminate the authorization for demonstration
projects, and by Paul A. Fino (R N.Y.) to eliminate the “metro” planning title.
House passage came after one of the most acrimonious floor debates of the session, during which Fino dominated much of the
discussion by repeatedly asserting that the measure was a disguised means of furthering civil rights objectives and federal control
over localities. Fino's major contention was that the demonstration cities and “incentive” metropolitan planning programs could be
used to require localities to “bus” children into integrated schools and to rewrite school boundaries. “If you vote for this scheme,”
Fino said, “…you are voting for forced busing, school pairing and redistricting.”
Administration forces retorted that nothing in the bill gave the Federal Government any such powers. (They did not deny that
localities, when acting on their own incentive, might be able to use funds for such purposes.) In view of the close vote expected
on passage, the Administration agreed to amend the measure to specifically prohibit the HUD Secretary from conditioning
demonstration cities or “incentive” planning assistance on local agreement to bus children, or from conditioning incentive planning
aid on local adoption of any other program to further a racial balance in schools.
Despite House acceptance of the antibusing amendments, Fino still criticized the measure as the “most farreaching civil rights
bill…that the White House has ever proposed.” The amendments were a “red herring,” he insisted, because they failed to
“prevent the city from being pressured into setting up educational parks or redrawing school district lines,” as he said was being
contemplated under the “Equal Educational Opportunity Act of 1967,” the draft legislation which he contended was being
formulated by the U.S. Office of Education. “If children are bused to such facilities,” Fino asserted,”…then such busing would not
be covered” by the amendments.
Fino, a member of the Housing Subcommittee, subsequently attempted to amend the bill to require a Justice Department
investigation of any “local group” participating in a proposed demonstration city project to ensure they were not connected with
“subversive…black power…or any other racist organization.” In response to this proposal, Abraham J. Multer (D N.Y.), one of the
bill's supporters, said he was “nauseated” by Fino's entire line of opposition. “There is nothing in this bill about ‘Black Power,’”
Multer said, “…and no mention of ‘local groups.’…. This is one more attempt by him to create some emotional reaction against
the bill.” Fino's amendment was rejected by voice vote.
In addition to its agreement to prohibit school busing, backers of the bill agreed to an amendment to delete a section authorizing
appointment by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) of “metropolitan expediters” to set up liaison between
localities and federal agencies in areas demonstrating both a need and desire for such officials. The National League of Cities, an
association of mayors which generally favored the bill, opposed the provision, reportedly contending that the expediters would
interfere with municipal affairs.
Business Support. In the weeks prior to House consideration of the bill, the Administration reportedly feared that passage of the
bill and attempts to delete funds might be decided by margins as narrow as three to five votes. It was thought that a key factor in
the wider margin achieved was the endorsement of the measure by 22 leading business executives, including Henry Ford II, Ford
Motor Co. president, and David Rockefeller, president of the Chase Manhattan Bank. In a statement issued Oct. 10, the group
said that urban blight constituted “the most pressing domestic problem of our time.” They termed the demonstrations program an
“imaginative” response to the problem and urged its “prompt passage” by the House.
PROVISIONS–As passed by the House, S 3708 contained essentially the same provisions as the two Senate-passed city
development bills (S 3708, S 3711). The major provisions included a three-year (fiscal 1967–69) demonstration cities program
with an authorization of $924 million, $250 million in urban renewal authorizations earmarked for demonstration city projects
during fiscal 1968 and later years, incentive grants to urban areas to encourage metropolitan planning, and new and broadened
FHA mortgage insurance benefits, including insurance for new towns. The major differences from the Senate-passed versions
were the House inclusion of the new towns program and deletion of the following Senate provisions: (1) an additional
authorization of $300 million in college housing loans for each of the fiscal years 1967, 1968 and 1969; (2) FHA mortgage
insurance for “seasonal” (vacation) housing; (3) a requirement that priority in the use of demonstration cities assistance go to new
programs not previously assisted by federal funds; (4) authority for certain selected U.S. cities to credit expenditures on specific
building projects as part of the city's required share of urban renewal costs; and (5) authority for the HUD Secretary to appoint
“metropolitan expediters” to establish liaison between localities and federal agencies in areas demonstrating both a need and
desire for such officials.
2/8/10 2:10 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 18 of 23file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…0and%20Metropolitan%20Development%20Act%20of%201966.webarchive
Amendments Accepted
Oct. 14–Abraham J. Multer (D N.Y.)–Specifically prohibit the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) from requiring
the busing of children into integrated schools as a condition for receiving aid under the demonstration cities program. Voice vote.
Porter Hardy Jr. (D Va.)–Prohibit the HUD Secretary from imposing any additional eligibility requirements for demonstration cities
assistance not essential to carry out specific provisions of the bill. Voice.
Multer–Prohibit the HUD Secretary from requiring busing of children or adoption of any other program to achieve a racial balance
between school districts in a metropolitan area as a condition for assistance under the bill's “incentive” metropolitan planning
grants section. Voice.
Thomas L. Ashley (D Ohio)–Delete language authorizing appointment of “metropolitan expediters” to set up liaison between
localities and federal agencies in areas demonstrating both a need and a desire for such officials. Voice.
Donald M. Fraser (D Minn.)–Liberalize the bill's metropolitan coordination requirement to allow localities applying for certain types
of federal loans and grants the option of submitting their applications either to a planning agency responsible to elected officials of
a unit of areawide government or an agency responsible to elected officials of the general local governments involved. (The
committee bill required review only by agencies responsible to local governments.) Voice.
William S. Moorhead (D Pa.)–Broaden a section of the bill authorizing Federal National Mortgage Assn. (FNMA) purchase of
certain types of construction mortgages to include FHA-insured below-market interest rate loan mortgages executed by a limited
dividend corporation. (The committee bill limited FNMA purchase of below-market interest rate mortgages to those executed by a
housing cooperative, including an investor-sponsor.) Also broaden the section to cover mortgages insured under the FHA
insurance program for housing in urban renewal areas, Voice.
Richard T. Hanna (D Calif.)–Eliminate certain existing law restrictions on inclusion of costs of exterior land improvements in
cooperative housing mortgages, Voice.
Thomas M. Rees (D Calif.)–Waive requirements for economic soundness of loans insured under normal FHA operations to provide
a special new home mortage insurance program for areas where violence or civil disorders had occurred or were threatened.
Voice.
William B. Widnall (R N.J.)–Require that the residential redevelopment of any urban renewal area provide a “substantial” supply of
low- and moderate-income housing. Voice.
Robert L.F. Sikes (D Fla.)–Authorize Secretaries of military departments to acquire or lease for up to 15 years off-base structures
for the housing of bachelor military personnel; limit such arrangements to structures in the United States and U.S. possessions.
Voice.
Ashley–Provide for refinancing of interim rural housing loans insured by the Farmers Home Administration when lapse of such
loans would result, at an early date, in loss of homes or farm service buildings. Voice.
Hanna–Express the sense of Congress that special assistance funds made available to FNMA under legislation enacted Sept. 10,
1966, (PL 89-556) should be released immediately to bolster funds available for construction of low-cost homes. Voice.
Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. (D Mass.)–Broaden existing urban renewal law to extend from one-quarter mile to one mile (or more if
specified for specific projects by the HUD Secretary) the maximum distance from an urban renewal project a university or hospital
could be located and still be allowed to credit certain expenditures toward the local share of urban renewal costs. Voice.
Joseph M. McDade (R Pa.)–Amend language added to basic urban renewal law by the Housing and Urban Development Act of
1965 (PL 89-117) to make clear that the Urban Renewal Administration was required to grant a three-fourths rather than two-
thirds federal contribution to urban renewal projects initiated in areas suffering from substantial or persistent unemployment.
Voice.
James J. Delaney (D N.Y.)–Stipulate that any excess of the annual $30 million authorization for student nursing and intern housing
loans could be used for additional loans for college recreation and assembly halls. Voice.
Donald J. Irwin (D Conn.)–Amend Section 810 of the National Housing Act to allow private individuals and partnerships to sponsor
armed service housing rental projects. (The existing section limited sponsorship of such projects to private corporations,
associations, cooperative societies or trusts.) Voice.
Hardy–Delete language authorizing the HUD Secretary to override state or local regulations regarding public water and sewerage
systems constructed on land developed with assistance of the new FHA land development mortgage insurance program
authorized by the bill; authorize the Secretary to regulate such facilities only in the absence of state or local supervision. Voice.
John D. Dingell (D Mich.)–Require that urban renewal areas, after redevelopment, be served by sewer systems which made
provision for separate conveyance and disposal of storm water and sanitary sewage. Voice.
Multer–Authorize the HUD Secretary to issue regulations providing a 25-percent increase in mortgage limits for two-, three- and
four-bedroom apartments insured under the FHA rehabilitation housing mortgage loan program. Voice.
John B. Anderson (R Ill.)–Place an annual family income ceiling of $10,000 on eligibility for admission to a housing project
constructed with assistance from the FHA below-market interest rate mortgage insurance program. (Maximum limits under
2/8/10 2:10 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 19 of 23file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…0and%20Metropolitan%20Development%20Act%20of%201966.webarchive
constructed with assistance from the FHA below-market interest rate mortgage insurance program. (Maximum limits under
existing law varied according to locality.) Voice.
Amendments Rejected
Oct. 14–W.E. Brock III (R Tenn.)–Delete the bill's authorization of $400 million in demonstration cities implementation funds for
fiscal 1968 and $500 million in such funds for fiscal 1969 (but not the planning authorization of $12 million in each of those
years). (The amendment also did not delete the bill's additional authorization of $250 million in urban renewal funds; however, the
funds could not have been used because no demonstration projects could have been initiated without the $900 million
authorization for general action funds.) Voice vote; teller vote, 110–141.
William B. Widnall (R N.J.)–Limit urban renewal assistance for demonstration cities project areas to funds authorized under S 3708
(leaving urban renewal authorizations already in existence to the exclusive use of nondemonstration city areas). Standing vote,
29–54.
Paul A. Fino (R N.Y.)–Require a Justice Department investigation of any “local group” participating in a proposed demonstration
cities project to ensure the group was not connected with “subversive… ‘black power’ or any other racist organizations.” Voice.
Bob Casey (D Texas)–Prohibit the HUD Secretary from requiring cities to adopt zoning codes as a condition for demonstration
cities assistance. Standing, 28–47.
Casey–Prohibit the Secretary from requiring establishment of a zoning code as a condition for assistance under the bill's new
program of “incentive” metropolitan planning grants. Standing, 15–38.
Fino–Delete Title II, the bill's metropolitan planning title. Standing, 63–93.
Thomas L. Ashley (D Ohio)–Delete language authorizing communities to credit toward their share of urban renewal costs a total of
up to 25 percent of expenditures on facilities used by the public for “municipal purposes”; broaden existing urban renewal law to
extend from one-quarter mile to one mile (or more if specified for a specific project by the HUD Secretary) the maximum distance
from an urban renewal project a university or hospital could be located and still be allowed to credit certain expenditures toward
the local share of urban renewal costs; add language directing the HUD Secretary to study the ways in which communities were
raising funds for their share of urban renewal costs and to report his findings and legislative recommendations to Congress.
Voice.
Abraham J. Multer (D N.Y.)–Delete sections of the bill authorizing grants to the National Trust for Historic Preservation, special
grants for historic surveys and direct, low-interest-rate loans for acquisition and rehabilitation of historic structures. Voice.
Florence P. Dwyer (R N.J.)–Delete provisions of the bill authorizing communities to credit expenditures for civic and other facilities
as a part of the local share of urban renewal costs. Standing, 35–52.
Ashley–Require certification by the HUD Secretary that a locality's total urban renewal program envisioned a substantial increase
in low- and moderate-income housing before any specific urban renewal project in the area could be approved. (The amendment
was offered as a substitute for a similar amendment by Widnall, which was subsequently accepted by the House. See above.)
Voice.
Brock–Place an annual family income ceiling of $7,500 on eligibility for admission to a housing project constructed with
assistance from the FHA below-market interest rate mortgage insurance program. Voice.
Dwyer–Require approval by a voter referendum before urban renewal projects could be initiated in communities with populations
of 150,000 or less. Standing. 26–56.
James Harvey (R Mich.)–Delete Title IV of the bill, providing FHA land development mortgage insurance for developers of entire
new towns and new communities. Standing, 26–53.
Del Clawson (R Calif.)–Delete language directing the HUD Secretary to undertake a two-year program of research and analysis to
develop means to improve understanding of environmental conditions necessary for the planning and development of “viable
urban centers.” Voice.
Frank A. Stubblefield (D Ky.)–Provide that certain expenses incurred by the city of Earlington, Ky., be credited as part of the local
share of urban renewal costs. Voice.
William S. Broomfield (R Mich.)–Require that redevelopment of urban renewal areas provide suitable housing of reasonable cost for
displaced families who desired to relocate within the boundaries of the project area; stipulate that residential construction and
rehabilitation be given priority, to the maximum extent feasible, over other activities undertaken as part of redevelopment. Voice.
John G. Dow (D N.Y.)–Amend the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965 (PL 89-117) to allow communities to begin
construction of sewer and water facilities without disqualification to receive federal funding at a later date. Voice.
Conference
REPORT. Conferees in a single session Oct. 17 resolved differences between the House and Senate versions of S 3708 and
agreed tentatively on a compromise version. Conference agreement on the noncontroversial Senate plan to aid purchasers of
“seasonal” (vacation) housing, however, raised a procedural quirk which threatened to delay final passage of the bill and,
possibly, the adjournment of Congress.
2/8/10 2:10 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 20 of 23file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…0and%20Metropolitan%20Development%20Act%20of%201966.webarchive
The problem arose because the seasonal housing plan had been approved as part of S 3711, the collateral Senate housing bill
which was not in conference despite House inclusion of most of its provisions. However, the seasonal housing program was not
included in S 3708 by the House. If the conferees had included the program in the conference report on S 3708, the report would
have been subject to a point of order when it was brought to the floor. Any House Member could have made the point of order
and Arch A. Moore (R W.Va.) reportedly said he would do so. Moore voted for the bill when it passed the House Oct. 14, but he
also voted for the recommittal motion which would have deleted demonstration cities implementation funds.
HUD officials, reportedly told by House Speaker John W. McCormack (D Mass.) that he would sustain a point of order against the
seasonal plan (killing the conference report), persuaded Senate conferees to reconvene and drop the provision. Leading
Democrats on the House Housing Subcommittee reportedly influenced the decision by promising the program's sponsor, Sen.
Edmund S. Muskie (D Maine), they would hold subcommittee hearings on the plan early in the 1967 session.
Report Filed. The conference report (H Rept 2301) was filed Oct. 18. Two House Republican conferees. Paul A. Fino (N.Y.) and
Florence P. Dwyer (N.J.), did not sign the document. On major differences between the House and Senate bills, conferees:
Demonstration Cities. Agreed to a Senate provision, not in the House bill, stipulating that demonstration cities assistance should
first be used to finance new programs not federally assisted and only secondarily to defray costs of the local share of programs
receiving federal aid. Agreed to a House provision, not in the Senate bill, specifically prohibiting the HUD Secretary from requiring
busing of children into integrated schools as a condition for participation in the program.
Metropolitan Expediter. Agreed to a Senate provision, not in the House bill, authorizing appointment of “metropolitan expediters”
to set up liaison between localities and federal agencies in areas demonstrating both a need and desire for such officials. Agreed
to compromise language, however, allowing such appointments only upon request of local officials of the central city of a
metropolitan area. Conferees in the report emphasized that the expediter was “intended to be the servant of the cities in the
metropolitan area, and his functions are limited to providing information, data, and assistance to local authorities and private
individuals and entities in the area.”
‘Incentive’ Metropolitan Planning Grants. Adopted House language, not in the Senate bill, specifically prohibiting the HUD
Secretary from requiring busing of children or adoption of any other program to achieve racial balance as a condition for
participation in the “incentive” grants plan.
Income Limits on Housing Assistance. Dropped a House provision, not in the Senate bill, placing an annual family income
ceiling of $10,000 on admission to a housing project constructed with assistance from the FHA below-market interest rate
mortgage insurance program.
Capehart Gl Housing Program. Dropped a House provision, not in the Senate bill, reactivating, through 1969, a program of
FHA mortgage insurance to finance purchase of off-base housing for servicemen and their families. (The program, widely known
as Capehart Housing, expired in 1962.) Also dropped a House provision increasing from 5,000 to 10,000 the maximum number of
units which could be insured at any one time under the FHA off-base rental housing program for military personnel.
New Towns. Adopted a House provision, not in the Senate bill, authorizing federal land development mortgage insurance for
developers of entire new towns and new communities. Added restrictive language, however, limiting the program to a six-year
duration, requiring project approval by local governing bodies of adjoining areas and of the state Governor, and limiting to $250
million the maximum amount of all insured loans which could be outstanding at any one time.
Medical Facilities. Agreed to a House provision, not in the Senate bill (but approved by the Senate in S 3711), authorizing FHA
mortgage insurance for loans to finance facilities for group practice of medicine, dentistry or optometry. Added language,
however, stipulating that while both profitmaking and nonprofitmaking groups might sponsor such facilities, mortgages could be
taken out only by private nonprofit corporations.
Urban Renewal. Agreed to a House provision, not in the Senate bill, authorizing localities to count toward their lequired share of
urban renewal costs a total of up to 25 percent of expenditures on facilities used by the public for cultural, exhibition, civic or
similar purposes. Eliminated House language, however, allowing such credit for “municipal” purposes, and added language
providing specifically for eligibility of city halls, public safety buildings and certain medical and mental health facilities. Also placed
a ceiling of $3.5 million on any single credit and directed (in the conference report but not in the bill) that HUD report to Congress
by January 1967 on the cost of the program, together with legislative recommendations for changes in existing requirements
regarding local contributions to urban renewal costs.
Final Action
The Senate Oct. 18, by a 38–22 roll-call vote, and the House Oct. 20, by a 142–126 roll-call vote (for voting, see charts p. 936,
986) adopted the conference report and sent the bill to President Johnson, who signed it into law Nov. 3 (PL 89 - 754). At
the signing ceremony, the President said the bill provided “the tools to reach out into our environment and shape it to our will.” He
said the measure would provide the housing, community renewal, employment, schools, recreation and the other ingredients
necessary to “spell the difference between despair and the good life.”
Features
Purpose of City Demonstrations
A major objective of the “demonstration cities” plan approved by Congress was to set up “showcase neighborhoods to
demonstrate how a coordination of federal and local programs could eliminate urban blight and change the “total environment” of
2/8/10 2:10 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 21 of 23file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…0and%20Metropolitan%20Development%20Act%20of%201966.webarchive
demonstrate how a coordination of federal and local programs could eliminate urban blight and change the “total environment” of
the neighborhood's residents. Relatively few cities were likely to receive aid under the plan; however, many more were expected
to benefit from observing new innovations and the example of good coordination which supporters of the bill hoped would be
apparent in the “model cities”–the new name given the program. (See p. 217.)
Government officials regarded the coordination example as a vital innovation in the urban rehabilitation effort. An Administration
official told Congressional Quarterly that, because of the almost total lack of coordination under existing law, officials of one
federal department or agency might be working at cross purposes-with those of another, while local officials might be countering
both federal and other local efforts.
Operation of Demonstration Cities Program Shown in Example
The “demonstration cities” program enacted as part of S 3708 provided new federal subsidies for a broad and coordinated attack
on urban blight. Participating cities were to receive grants of up to 80 percent of the required local financial contribution to all
federally assisted programs approved as part of a demonstration project. They could spend the funds on any new or existing
nonfederally assisted program approved as part of the demonstration and use the balance of funds to defray costs of the required
local share of federal programs in the demonstration. Following is a hypothetical example of how a participating city might
compute and spend its grant under the program. In the example, the city uses its funds ($8.8 million) exclusively to finance
nonfederally assisted programs, and not, as would be possible under the law, to defray costs of the local share of federal
programs.
The demonstration cities grants is determined on the basis of existing federal grant-in-aid programs which are used as part of the local
demonstration program:
Federally Assisted Activities Included as Part of Local
Demonstration
Cost of
Activity
Federal Share [1] Nonfederal
Contribution
  Percentage Dollars  
Urban Renewal Projects $15,000,000 66-2/3% $10,000,000 $ 5,000,000
Code Enforcement Project 3,000,000 66-2/3 2,000,000 1,000,000
Sewer and Water Project 600,000 50 300,000 300,000
Neighborhood Center 1,200,000 66-2/3 800,000 400,000
Hospital 5,700,000 Varies 2,000,000 3,700,000
Community Action Program 3,000,000 90 2,700,000 300,000
Manpower Development and Training Project 3,000,000 90 2,700,000 300,000
 $31,500,000  $20,500,000 $11,000,000
[1] 1 Under existing law.
The actual amount of the demonstration grant in dollars is calculated by taking 80 percent of the nonfederal contributions to
demonstration activities in the program which are assisted under existing federal grant-in-aid programs: 80 percent of $11 million for a
grant of $8.8 million.
The city might use the $8.8 million grant for the activities listed below. If the city did not plan these or other new or nonfederally
assisted activities (which were acceptable to the HUD Secretary) on which to spend the $8.8 million, the funds could be applied to the
$11 million local contribution for programs listed above.
Grants for rehabilitatien of multifamily structures $2,500,000
Revolving fund for purchase and rehabilitation of housing 2,500,000
Increased level of garbage collection and rodent control in area 400,000
Police-community relations program 300,000
Training unemployed in rehabilitation skills 350,000
Additional “Head Start” activities beyond what is available from Community Action Program 1,750,000
Improving and equipping neighborhood playgrounds 700,000
Other activities 300,000
 $8,800,000
Source: U.S. Dept. of Housing and Urban Development.
Federal Aid Provided for Construction of New Towns
Along with the new programs launched under the 1966 housing legislation, Congress approved an old Administration proposal–
federal mortgage insurance to aid developers of entire new towns and new communities.
Twice before, in his 1964 and 1965 housing messages, President Johnson urged the “new towns” plan as an alternative to urban
sprawl. But in each of those years, opposition by big city mayors and urban-oriented homebuilders killed the proposal in
2/8/10 2:10 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 22 of 23file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…0and%20Metropolitan%20Development%20Act%20of%201966.webarchive
sprawl. But in each of those years, opposition by big city mayors and urban-oriented homebuilders killed the proposal in
committee.
Again in 1966, the program appeared dead when the Senate Banking and Currency Committee dropped it for the third year in
succession. However, following a major push by the Administration which was aided by House Banking and Currency Committee
Chairman Wright Patman (D Texas), the plan was approved by the House and accepted in modified form by a House-Senate
conference. To ease the opposition of mayors, the conference added a provision making aid contingent upon approval by officials
of adjoining localities, as well as the state Governor. Conferees also wrote in restrictive language limiting the program to a six-
year duration (through Oct. 1, 1972) and limiting to $250 million the total amount of such mortgages that could be outstanding at
any one time.
Purpose. The thrust of the new program was to aid private enterprise in establishing well-planned, self-sustaining new
communities beyond the periphery of overly populated cities. The communities would have all of the stores, services, schools,
public transportation, and–planners hoped–businesses and industry required by the persons living there.
Because of the huge costs of land development, few developers had previously ventured into the new towns field. Under the new
program, they could receive Federal Housing Administration mortgage insurance of up to $25 million to finance the costs of land
acquisition and improvements (such as water and sewer systems, but not homebuilding and related activities) on any single land
project. Although the $25 million limit might provide little more than a start for a large new town, developers considered it more
than ample to construct modestsized communities.
Existing Projects, Development Problems. By mid-1966, five major, privately financed new town projects were well underway–
El Dorado Hills, Calif., outside Sacramento (projected population: 75,000); Reston. Va., near Washington, D.C. (75,000); Litchfield
Park, Ariz., near Phoenix (100,000); Columbia, Md., between Washington and Baltimore (110,000); and Clear Lake City, Texas,
outside Houston (180,000).
Although all five of the new communities appeared likely to be a success, each was hobbled by the same problems in early
development efforts. These included: (1) the high costs of purchasing large tracts of land reasonably close to established areas;
(2) inadequacy of roads and utilities in the development areas; (3) red-tape involved in clearing the projects with county and other
local officials; (4) initial difficulties experienced in selling new home buyers on the advantages of “new town” living; and (5) the
concessions required to lure in industry before the town was actually thriving.
Future of the Concept. Although federal aid was expected to encourage a substantial increase in the development of modest-
sized new communities, it was thought the development of large new towns was dependent upon the effort of major U.S.
corporations. Of the five big developments under construction, two were sponsored exclusively by large manufacturing firms–
Clear Lake City by the Humble Oil and Refining Co., and Litchfield Park by the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co. (A third, Reston,
was being financed largely by the Gulf Oil Corp. and the John Hancock Life Insurance Co., although it was sponsored by a
private developer.) Two other giant companies–the Litton Corp. and the General Electric Co., had, by late 1966, announced their
intentions to join the city building effort. A key to the trend of future city building was announced by GE, which said it hoped to
use its projected new town as a market to test new products it would like to introduce, such as electronic transportation systems.
Demonstrations' Program Renamed
Following passage of the 1966 housing legislation, the demonstration cities program underwent an official change in name. On
signing the bill Nov. 3, President Johnson termed the program “model cities” rather than “demonstration cities” as was commonly
used previously and appeared in the bill's title, “Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan Development Act of 1966.” Although
officials of the Department of Housing and Urban Development said there was no official directive from Mr. Johnson, they
subsequently adopted the new term for all program regulations and official correspondence. Officials declined to explain the
change, but it was thought that racial demonstrations in many cities in recent years made the original “demonstration cities” name
for the program distasteful to the Administration.
College Housing Loans
Financing of the Government's college housing loan program created controversy during 1966. Supporters of the program
contended that insufficient funds would be available during fiscal 1967, but the Budget Bureau in September said that $300
million would be provided; this was the amount contained in President Johnson's fiscal 1967 Budget.
The Housing Act of 1950 authorized direct long-term, low interest loans to colleges and universities to construct dormitories and
other student and faculty housing. The 1965 Housing and Urban Development Act (PL 89-117) extended the program and
authorized the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to borrow $300 million annually from the Treasury during fiscal
1967–69 to finance the loans. (1965 Almanac p. 358)
However, Congress in May 1966 enacted the Participation Sales Act (S 3283) which eliminated the $300 million authorization for
fiscal 1967, but left the authorization for the following two years intact. The fiscal 1967 authorization was repealed because it was
thought that funds would be obtained through the sale of participations. (See story p. 741.)
The Government Sept. 10, 1966, suspended sales of participations because of tight money market conditions. Supporters of the
college housing loan program said the September action left the program with inadequate financing during fiscal 1967. However,
at the start of fiscal 1967, the program had $208 million available in its revolving fund from carryover balances and repayments.
During consideration Aug. 11, 1966, of a housing bill (S 3711, see accompanying story), the Senate accepted an amendment by
Jacob K. Javits (R N.Y.) which restored the authority, which was eliminated by the Participation Sales Act, for the HUD Secretary
to borrow $300 million in fiscal 1967 for the college housing program. In addition, it provided another $300 million for 1968 and
1969, bringing the total authorization to $600 million for each of those years (because the existing amounts, provided by the 1965
2/8/10 2:10 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 23 of 23file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…0and%20Metropolitan%20Development%20Act%20of%201966.webarchive
1969, bringing the total authorization to $600 million for each of those years (because the existing amounts, provided by the 1965
housing act. were not repealed by S 3283). However, the Javits amendment was later dropped when the House merged S 3711
with another housing bill, S 3708. As a result, the Javits amendment was killed in the House and was not before a conference
committee.
Budget Bureau Director Charles L. Schultze, in a Sept. 28 letter to House Banking and Currency Committee Chairman Wright
Patman (D Texas), said that “at the minimum” the Government would sell enough participation certificates during fiscal 1967 to
make $300 million available for the college housing loan program. (The Government Dec. 19 announced that a sale was
scheduled for early January 1967.) He noted that with the more than $200 million already available in the housing loan fund,
participation certificate sales would have to total only about $100 million.
Areawide Planning Issue
The controversy over the “demonstration cities” program obscured a provision which some observers thought might require a
major change in the administration of urban-oriented federal aid programs.
The provision, Section 204 of S 3708, required local government officials, effective July 1, 1967, to submit to an areawide
planning agency for review all applications for federal loans and grants to assist in carrying out activities under ten major aid
categories. Included were all activities concerning federal open-space land projects, water development and land conservation
programs and all federal aids for planning or constructing hospitals, airports, libraries, water supply and distribution facilities,
sewerage facilities and waste treatment works, highways, and transportation facilities.
Although the provision did not allow a planning agency to veto such applications, it directed the ageney to submit its
recommendations and comments for consideration by the appropriate federal authorities. Critics contended this procedure would
lead to complete dominance of the aid programs by the planning agencies. Federal authorities, they said, would seek to avoid the
controversies that might be caused by approving programs over the opposition of an areawide agency.
During House debate on the demonstration cities bill Oct. 14, a second criticism of the provision was raised. Although the
language of Section 204 did not specifically require the appointment of such agencies where they were not in existence, House
Republicans argued it would have that effect. One GOP Member, William C. Cramer (Fla), contended that the Governor of his
state did not have the authority under state law to appoint or designate such agencies, and that, unless the state legislature was
able to act before the effective date, aid might be cut off for metropolitan areas throughout Florida.
Congressional experts varied in their interpretations of the point raised by Cramer, but most indicated the provision was so vague
as to require refinement by additional legislation.
Document Citation
"Housing, Demonstration Cities Bill  Enacted." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal66-1301250. Originally published
in CQ Almanac 1966 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1967). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal66-1301250 (accessed February
4, 2010).
Document ID: cqal66-1301250
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal66-1301250
© 1967, 2010, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
