2/8/10 2:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 27file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…using%20and%20Urban%20Development%20Act%20of%201965.webarchive
HR 7984 — Reported by the House
Banking and Currency Committee (H Rept
365) May 21, 1965.
S 2213 — Reported by the Senate
Banking and Currency Committee (S Rept
378) June 28.
HR 7984 — Passed, amended, by a 245–
169 roll-call vote of the House June 30.
(See p. 974)
Passed, amended, by a 54–30 roll-call
vote of the Senate July 15. (See p.
1059)
Conference report (H Rept 679)
adopted by voice vote of the Senate
July 26 and by a 251–168 roll-call vote
of the House July 27. (See p. 982)
PL 89 - 117  — Signed into law Aug.
10.
Major Housing Legislation Enacted
An article from CQ Almanac 1965
Document Outline
Summary of Bill
Provisions
Background
House
Senate
Conference
Features
Congress in 1965 passed the most far-reaching housing and urban development
legislation since the landmark Housing Act of 1949.
Designed to provide a comprehensive plan of federal assistance over the four-
year period of 1966–69, HR 7984 authorized an estimated $7.8 billion to fund a
variety of new housing and urban development programs and to extend and
broaden existing ones. One major new undertaking was an Administration
proposal for federal rent supplements for families or individuals unable to afford
standard private housing within their own incomes.
In addition to the omnibus bill, Congress, in separate legislation, authorized the
establishment of a Department of Housing and Urban Development. (See p. 382)
In all, President Johnson obtained the bulk of his housing requests in 1965.
A major impetus for both measures came from the increasing demands for
better planned and more attractive cities, orderly urban development and
adequate housing for low-income and impoverished individuals. President
Johnson in his “Great Society” speech of May 22, 1964, had accorded urban
development the role of one of the “three places where we begin to build the
Great Society,” (see box). In addition, many major existing housing programs
were scheduled to expire in 1965.
The bill authorized major new federal efforts to provide good housing for the
poor in other than traditional public housing. The major program was rent
supplements; it was expected to encourage many private non-profit groups to
develop housing for low-income individuals who otherwise might seek public
housing space. In addition, another provision of the bill authorized the use of
federal funds to place low-income individuals in existing private housing at costs
comparable to those for providing public housing. This was a modified Republican proposal.
The Administration's rent supplements proposal was the most publicized—and the most controversial—feature of the bill.
President Johnson called the proposal “the most crucial new instrument in our effort to improve the American city.”
Under the provision, an individual was to pay 25 percent of his income for rent in private, non-profit housing and the Government
was to pay the balance.
Who would be eligible to receive supplements was a major element in the controversy over the program. Eligibility standards
underwent a basic change before the bill became law. The Administration originally proposed that the supplements be made
available to persons with income too high to permit them to live in public housing but too low for them to pay rents necessary to
obtain good private housing. The proposal specifically excluded persons eligible for public housing. The final bill, however, made
eligible for supplements only persons who were also eligible for public housing. In addition, the final bill—as well as the
Administration proposals—required a recipient to be either 62 years of age or older, physically handicapped, displaced by
governmental action (highway construction, etc.) or living in “substandard housing.” (See box p. 361)
The Administration agreed to the change in eligibility standards when it appeared that its original proposals were headed for
defeat. The supplements concept had encountered immediate and sharp criticism from both Republicans and Democrats. In spite
of the changes, a Republican move in the House to kill the supplements section was rejected by a narrow 202–208 roll-call vote.
2/8/10 2:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 27file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…using%20and%20Urban%20Development%20Act%20of%201965.webarchive
of the changes, a Republican move in the House to kill the supplements section was rejected by a narrow 202–208 roll-call vote.
In the Senate, a GOP — sponsored amendment to delete the program was defeated by seven votes. Later in the year,
opponents of the program succeeded in blocking a supplemental appropriation to get the supplements program underway,
although it was generally believed that the funds would be forth-coming the following year. (See p. 182 and box p. 381)
Housing officials figured that the supplements plan would stimulate the construction of 375,000 units of privately owned housing
by 1969. This would compare with only 590,000 units of public housing constructed since that program's enactment in 1937 (HR
7984 authorized construction of an additional 240,000 public housing units during fiscal 1966 to 1969).
The controversy over rent supplements obscured the wide support that much of HR 7984 commanded in Congress. Any large
controversies that might have developed over other major programs in the bill were sidetracked by the rent supplements debate.
The bill, in addition to the Administration proposals, embodied several GOP-sponsored programs, including low down-payment
federal insurance of home mortgages for veterans, the leasing of existing housing for public housing use, and reduction of
interest rates on various housing loan programs from their market-produced level to a fiat 3 percent.
One major Administration proposal which was not enacted was federal assistance to promote the development of entire new
towns and new communities. The new towns proposal, which had been requested and turned down in 1964, again encountered
opposition from many groups and support from virtually none.
Summary of Bill
The provisions of HR 7984 covered a wide spectrum of housing and urban development programs ranging from rent supplements
to rural housing. (For details, see next section.) In its major provisions, HR 7984:
Established a new program of rent supplements to low-income families who could not obtain standard housing within their own
incomes.
Extended or increased the funding of numerous housing programs, including ones for moderate-income families, low-rent public
housing and direct loans for housing for the elderly. Broadened the public housing program to permit increased use of existing housing
which, together with new construction, would provide an additional 60,000 units per year over a four-year period.
Established a new program of Federal Housing Administration insurance of commercial loans for land development in neighborhoods
and subdivisions.
Authorized a new program of FHA insurance of low down-payment mortgages for veterans who had not already received Veterans
Administration (VA) benefits.
Extended existing FHA home mortgage insurance programs for four years, through Oct. 1, 1969.
Extended the urban renewal program for four years, through Oct. 1, 1969, and provided an additional $2.9 billion authority for grants.
Authorized expanded urban renewal code enforcement and rehabilitation activities in order to minimize demolition and clearance in
these areas.
Provided grants to low-income homeowners in urban renewal areas to help them repair their homes.
Established uniform land acquisition procedures to be followed in connection with the acquisition of land by eminent domain under
federally assisted urban development programs.
Increased the authorization for college housing loans by $300 million a year over the following four years.
Authorized a new program of matching grants to local public bodies for the construction of basic public water and sewer facilities.
Authorized grants for up to two-thirds of the cost (three-quarters in some cases) of constructing neighborhood facilities, including
health, recreational and community centers.
Increased grants for open-space land acquisition and provided a new program of grants to provide open space for parks and
playgrounds in built-up urban areas.
Authorized grants to local public bodies to provide programs of urban beautification and improvement.
Established a new program of insured housing loans for rural areas and broadened an existing loan program to allow persons in any
age group to buy previously occupied dwellings, farm service buildings and adequate farm land. (Under existing law, such loans could
be made only to elderly persons.)
Provisions
As signed into law, HR 7984, the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965, contained the following provisions:
2/8/10 2:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 27file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…using%20and%20Urban%20Development%20Act%20of%201965.webarchive
Title I: Special Provisions for Disadvantaged Persons. The first title of the bill provided for rent supplement payments to low-
income families, provided a four-year extension — to Oct. 1, 1969 — of Federal Housing Administration (FHA) mortgage
insurance programs for low- and moderate- income persons, authorized a 3-percent interest rate ceiling on the FHA below-
market interest rate insurance program, provided rehabilitation grants for owners of substandard housing in urban renewal areas,
authorized special programs to aid persons adversely affected by the closing of federal installations and broadened the scope of
certain housing programs.
Rent Supplements. Authorized the Administrator of me Housing and Home Finance Agency (HHFA) to make rent supplement
payments on behalf of individuals or families who were unable to obtain adequate private housing for rents which were equal to
or less than one-quarter of their incomes. Authorized the payments for persons who were determined, under procedures
established by the HHFA Administrator, to have incomes less man the maximum amount of income that a person may have and
still be eligible for public housing in the area in which he lives. In addition, eligibility was limited to persons who were either
physically handicapped, elderly (62 or older), displaced by Government action, occupying “substandard housing,” or occupants or
former occupants of housing in a locality determined by the Small Business Administration, subsequent to April 1, 1965, to have
been affected by a natural disaster.
Limited the amount of any payment to the difference between 25 percent of the occupant's income and the fair market rental
charge for his dwelling. (The payment would be made to the housing owner on behalf of the occupant. As the income of the
occupant rose, the supplement payment would decline until he could pay the entire rent; when this occurred, the occupant could
continue to live in the same unit without a supplement.)
Stipulated that payments would be made only with respect to housing built by private non-profit or limited-dividend corporations or
by cooperatives with the assistance of FHA-insured market interest rate mortgages.
In addition, for the purposes of an experimental program, provided up to 10 percent of total rent supplement funds for payments
on behalf of eligible tenants in housing projects “financed (1) by FHA-insured, below-market interest rate loans for low- and
moderate-income families and displaced families, (2) by FHA-insured loans for housing for the elderly and (3) by FHA direct loans
for housing for the elderly. In the case of the FHA direct loans, payments could be made only for persons living in existing
housing (future construction would not qualify for the supplements program) and would be limited to 20 percent of the dwelling
units in an existing project; no similar restriction was provided for other new or existing housing under the experimental-program
section. Earmarked one-half of the funds provided by the 10-percent wording for housing built with below-market interest rate
loans and one-half for the other two types of housing.
Prohibited payments with respect to projects whose operating costs were greater than those of similar housing in the community.
Authorized the HHFA Administrator to enter into 40-year contracts with housing owners for the purpose of rent supplement
payments.
Authorized project owners to select occupants subject to qualifications established by the HHFA, or a public or private agency
designated by HHFA, concerning the criteria for eligibility. Authorized occupants to obtain options to purchase rented housing at
specified prices when landlords determined the probability of future increases in occupants’ incomes.
Directed the HHFA Administrator to establish criteria for determining the continued eligibility of participants in the program.
Specifically required the Administrator to provide for recertification of participants’ incomes, with the exception of the elderly, at
two-year intervals, or more frequently as the Administrator desired.
Limited rent supplement contracts to $30 million for fiscal 1966, and an additional $35 million in fiscal 1967, $40 million in fiscal
1968, and $45 million in fiscal 1969. (The HHFA program contemplated construction of 375,000 units of privately owned housing
by the end of fiscal 1969.)
FHA Loan Programs for Low- and Moderate- income Persons and Displaced Persons. Continued for four years, to Oct. 1, 1969,
FHA authority to insure mortgages under these programs.
Established an interest rate ceiling on loan assistance under the FHA below-market interest rate program at the lower of either 3
percent or the existing statutory rate formula, which currently produced a rate of 3–7/8 to 4 percent. (Under this program enacted
in 1961, non-profit organizations, cooperatives and public agencies could borrow money from commercial sources, such as
banks, at interest rates below those generally prevailing in the housing market. The loans were insured by the FHA. The Federal
National Mortgage Assn. (FNMA) then would buy the mortgage from the bank or other lender which normally would agree to the
sale in order to avoid tying up funds in low-interest loans. The net effect of the procedure was mat FNMA advanced money at
low interest rates for construction of housing for this program.)
Pooling of Mortgages for Sale. Amended a section of the Housing Act of 1964 which authorized the FNMA to sell to private
investors participations in a trust secured by a pool of mortgage loans held by the FNMA, as follows: in order to encourage
inclusion in the pool of mortgages bearing below-market interest rates, the bill authorized appropriations to make up the
difference to the FNMA between outlays on participations in a pool and receipts from below-market-rate mortgages.
(Appropriations were necessary because mortgage loans that were put into the pool needed to bear interest rates high enough to
produce an income that could be used to pay the interest of the participation certificates. As a result, no below-market-rate
mortgages had been included in the pool. The sale of participations was designed to draw funds of private investors — rather
than Treasury funds — to finance Government mortgage holdings.)
Use of Vacant Units. Authorized local housing authorities to lease vacant units in existing private housing for one- to three-year
periods for occupancy by low-income families at rents no higher than those that could be charged for newly constructed public
housing units. Limited such leasing to 10 percent of the units in any single structure unless HHFA determined that the limit in a
given case should not apply. Made the program's application in a given locality contingent upon the approval of local governing
2/8/10 2:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 27file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…using%20and%20Urban%20Development%20Act%20of%201965.webarchive
given case should not apply. Made the program's application in a given locality contingent upon the approval of local governing
bodies.
Public Housing for the Handicapped. Amended existing housing law to provide equal treatment of handicapped families and
elderly families for low-rent housing purposes by extending to handicapped families all of the special provisions in the law (such
as increased room cost limits and special $120 annual contributions per unit for occupied dwelling units) which were currently
available to the elderly.
Housing for the Elderly and Handicapped. Increased to $500 million the existing $350 million appropriations authorization ceiling
on the program of direct loans to provide housing for the elderly or handicapped, limited the interest rate on such loans to 3
percent (rather than the 3–3/4–4 percent that was currently in effect).
Rehabilitation Grants. Authorized grants of up to $1,500 for costs of repairs and improvements of homes in urban renewal areas;
specified that a recipient could earn no more than $3,000 annually. Provided smaller grants for homeowners whose incomes
exceeded $3,000.
Federal Installations Closings. Provided a moratorium of up to one year on payments of principal, and in some cases, interest, on
FHA-insured loans when homeowners were unemployed as the result of the closing of a federal installation.
Authorized the Secretary of Defense to acquire properties for FHA disposal when persons unemployed by the closing of federal
installations certified that they were unable to sell their homes on reasonable terms.
Title II. FHA Insurance Operations. Extended FHA loan insurance activities for four years, through Oct. 1, 1969, and authorized
the following program:
Mortgage Insurance on Land Development Loans. Authorized FHA insurance of private loans for land acquisition and site
development. The maximum FHA insured mortgage could (1) cover up to 75 percent of the estimated value of the developed land
or (2) 50 percent of the land value before development plus 90 percent of the cost of the site development, whichever was less.
Limited the maximum mortgage for a single land undertaking to $10 million. Eligible costs were the acquisition of the land and its
improvement with water and sewer facilities, roads, streets, sidewalks, storm drainage facilities and other similar site work.
Permitted either a public sewer system or an adequately regulated private one on land developed under FHA assistance.
Downpayment Requirement. Reduced the downpayment that a person must make on a home valued between $20,000 and
$30,000 where the purchase is financed with a mortgage insured under the regular FHA home mortgage insurance program, as
follows: required that the payment on that part of the value of insured property which exceeded $20,000 be 20 percent, in place
of the existing 25 percent.
Veterans Loans. Established a special FHA home mortgage insurance program for veterans who had not already received
benefits under the VA program. Permitted no down payment on the first $15,000 of such insured loan, 10-percent down on the
amount between $15,000 and $20,000 and 15 percent on the amount between $20,000 and $30,000, the existing statutory
limitation for FHA loan insurance. Limited participation to veterans who had served tours of 90 days or more (or were certified by
the Secretary of Defense as having performed extra-hazardous service).
Loans in High-Cost Areas. Authorized the Federal Housing Commissioner to raise the existing ceiling of $10,000 on FHA-
insurable home improvement loans by up to 45 percent in high-cost areas.
Mortgages for Servicemen. Increased the maximum amount of a mortgage for a member of the Armed Forces which the FHA
would insure from $20,000 to $30,000. Provided for a minimum down payment on such loans as follows: 3 percent on the first
$15,000; 10 percent on the amount between $15,000 and $20,000 and 15 percent on the amount between $20,000 and $30,000.
Optional Cash Payment of FHA Insurance Benefits. Authorized the Housing Commissioner at his discretion to pay benefits
derived from FHA programs either in cash or in debentures (negotiable, interest-bearing notes) and to borrow from the Treasury
for payments as he deemed necessary.
FHA Urban Renewal Housing Programs. Raised the maximum amount of mortgage insurance which a non-occupant mortgagor in
an urban renewal area could receive for rehabilitation, purchase or construction for rental purposes of a 1- to 11-family home or
other property from 85 percent of the loan amount an owner-occupant could receive to 93 percent of that amount.
Authorized the HHFA Administrator to permit such non-dwelling facilities as he deemed desirable and consistent to be included in
FHA-insured multi-family rental housing projects located in urban renewal areas.
Title III. Urban Renewal. Continued the federal urban renewal programs for four years by authorizing an additional $2.9 billion
for renewal grants, as follows: $675 million upon enactment, $725 million in fiscal 1967 and $750 million each in fiscal 1968 and
fiscal 1969.
Directed the Housing Administrator to study and report to the President and Congress on housing and building laws, codes,
standards and regulations, zoning and land-use laws, codes and regulations, and federal, state and local tax policies.
General Neighborhood Renewal Plans. Authorized the inclusion of non-renewal areas with “specially related problems” in
community development plans so that renewal programs could deal with unfragmented neighborhoods. Provided that all projects
in the plan area be initiated in eight years.
Demolition Grants. Authorized grants of up to two-thirds of cost for demolition of unsafe structures in urban renewal areas or
other areas which had workable programs and met specified conditions.
2/8/10 2:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 27file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…using%20and%20Urban%20Development%20Act%20of%201965.webarchive
Code Enforcement and Rehabilitation. Stipulated that code enforcement and rehabilitation projects (aimed at minimizing the need
for demolition and clearance in urban renewal areas) receive a minimum of 10 percent of the aggregate of (1) the $2.9 billion
capital grant authority of HR 7984 and subsequent legislation and (2) the authorization for low-interest-rate rehabilitation loans
under the Housing Act of 1964.
Doubled the existing $50 million appropriations authorization ceiling provided in the Housing Act of 1964 for rehabilitation loans.
Provided for termination of the program on Oct. 1, 1969.
Authorized grants to cities, other municipalities, and counties for programs of concentrated code enforcement in deteriorated or
deteriorating areas (rather than only in urban renewal areas, as provided in existing law); grants could be for up to two-thirds of
cost, or three-fourths of cost in the case of cities of less than 50,000 population.
Local Grants-in-Aid. Included numerous provisions relating to specific urban renewal projects in various cities throughout the
country.
Historic Structures. Authorized an urban renewal project to include the cost of relocating historic structures within the project
area.
Workable Program Requirement. Amended the Housing Act of 1949 to require that each workable program for community
improvement be sufficiently extensive and detailed to prove the need for a proposed urban renewal project and to demonstrate
that the project was in accord with the workable program.
Stipulated that the workable program requirement would be applicable to an Indian tribe, band or nation only to the extent that it
had legal jurisdiction and power to carry out the requirement.
Non-Residential Projects. Stipulated that up to 35 percent of the bill's new capital grant authorization for urban renewal activities
could be used for projects which were predominantly non-residential both before and after renewal. Stipulated that the existing
30-percent limitation on such projects would remain in force for amounts previously available for such projects but still unused.
Lease Guarantees for Small Businesses. Amended the Small Business Investment Act to authorize the Small Business
Administration (SBA) to guarantee payment of rentals under leases entered into by small business concerns displaced by federal
or federally aided urban renewal, highway or other construction projects and concerns eligible for loans under the Economic
Opportunity Act of 1964. Limited the SBA fee for the guarantee to 2–1/2 percent of minimum annual guaranteed rental.
Established a revolving fund for this program with initial capital of $5 million from SBA's general fund and increased the
authorization to the general fund by a like amount.
Other Provisions. Amended the Housing Act of 1954 to authorize the District of Columbia Redevelopment Land Agency to
undertake renewal projects in areas which were not residential or predominantly residential.
Expanded and implemented guidelines of existing law regarding relocation assistance programs for persons displaced by urban
renewal.
Made economically depressed areas (designated as urban redevelopment areas under the Area Redevelopment Act or similar
legislation subsequently enacted) with populations of 150,000 or more eligible for capital grants of three-fourths of the cost of
urban renewal projects. (Existing law provided for grants of up to two-thirds of the cost of projects in such redevelopment areas,
but up to three-fourths of the cost if the areas had a population of less than 150,000. The provision applied retroactively to
Providence, R.I., and could apply to other areas in the future.)
Title IV. Compensation of Condemnees. Established uniform land acquisition procedures to be followed in connection with the
acquisition of land by eminent domain under the following federally assisted urban development programs: urban renewal, public
housing, urban mass transportation, public facility loans, open-space land, basic public works, neighborhood facilities and
advance acquisition of land. The uniform procedures required an applicant to make every reasonable effort to acquire property by
negotiated purchase before resorting to eminent domain and provided safeguards for the owners of real property against unfair
treatment under eminent domain proceedings.
Title V. Low-Rent Public Housing. Extended the low-rent public housing program for four years, to Oct. 1, 1969, and increased
the authorization for contracts for this program by $47 million annually during fiscal 1966–69 (the existing authorized total was
$366,250,000) in order to provide an estimated 60,000 units per year over the four-year period. (Housing officials said they
expected the 60,000 total to include about 35,000 units in new construction, 15,000 units from purchase and—if necessary—
rehabilitation of existing housing, and 10,000 units leased from owners for low-rent use.)
Greater Use of Existing Housing. Authorized amortization periods of less than 40 years on public housing indebtedness in order
to facilitate the purchase or leasing of older housing for use as low-rent public housing.
Reallocation of Units. Authorized the reallocation of housing units not placed under construction within five years from the date
they were reserved for a state, without regard to limits on the amount of units which may be placed under contract in any one
state.
Sale of Federally Owned Projects. Authorized the Public Housing Administration (PHA) to sell a federally owned public housing
project to a non-profit local group, as well as to a local public housing agency, provided that such project would remain in use as
low-rent housing.
Per Room Limitations. Increased the limitations on the cost of construction of low-rent public housing from $2,000 to $2,400 for
regular units, from $3,000 to $3.500 for units constructed in Alaska or for the elderly and from $3,500 to $4,000 for units in
2/8/10 2:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 27file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…using%20and%20Urban%20Development%20Act%20of%201965.webarchive
regular units, from $3,000 to $3.500 for units constructed in Alaska or for the elderly and from $3,500 to $4,000 for units in
Alaska for the elderly.
Rental Gap. Exempted disaster victims (as defined under the rent supplements program, above) from a requirement that there be
a 20-percent gap between upper rental limits for admission to public housing and lowest private rents.
Purchase by Tenants. Permitted tenants to purchase detached, semi-detached or row public housing units.
Title VI. College Housing. Extended the college housing loan program for four years, through fiscal 1969. (The existing
authorization for the program totaled $2,875,000,000 and was increased by $300 million annually; the $300 million annual
increase was to continue during the four-year extension.)
Established an interest rate ceiling on such loans at the lower of either 3 percent or the existing statutory-interest rate formula
(which currently provided an actual rate of about 3–3/4–4 percent). (This encouraged state universities to use the federal program
for the first time, since the 3-percent interest rate was lower than that usually paid on state bond issues.)
Stipulated that new colleges were eligible for loans when they provided assurance that they would offer the baccalaureate degree
within a reasonable period of time.
Broadened coverage of the loan program to include vocational and technical institutions administered by fully accredited, degree-
granting, four-year universities and colleges.
Title VII. Community Facilities. Authorized the HHFA Administrator to make grants to local public bodies and agencies to
finance up to 50 percent of the cost of projects to provide basic water facilities (including storage, purification, treatment and
distribution) and sewer facilities (other than for “treatment works” eligible for federal aid under the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act) in communities of any size. Authorized grants for 90 percent of the cost for a sewer facility in communities under 10,000
population which had an unemployment rate 100 percent above the national average for the preceding year and in which there
was no adequate facility serving “a substantial portion” of the community's inhabitants. Stipulated that before a grant could be
approved for a sewer facility, the Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare would be required to certify that any waste material
carried by such facilities would be “adequately treated” (in accordance with applicable federal, state, interstate and local
standards) before it was discharged into any public waterway. (The grants could be used to construct, expand, enlarge and
improve basic public water and sewer facilities, but were not intended for ordinary repair and maintenance expenses of existing
systems.)
Authorized the HHFA Administrator to make grants to local public bodies and agencies to finance up to two-thirds of the cost of
neighborhood health and recreation centers and similar community services (grants could be for up to 75 percent of the cost in
the case of a project located in a “redevelopment area” as designated in the Area Redevelopment Act or a supplementary act.
Required such a project to: (1) provide health, recreational, social or similar community services (including a community action
program under the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964), (2) be consistent with community development planning and (3) be
located near a “significant portion” of the area's low- or moderate-income residents.
Authorized grants to local public bodies and agencies to assist in the acquisition of land for future construction of public works or
facilities; the grant could cover the total amount of reasonable interest charges for five years.
Authorized appropriations for fiscal years 1966–69, as follows: $200 million a year for water and sewer grants; $50 million a year
for neighborhood facilities; and $25 million a year for advance acquisition of land.
Title VIII. Federal National Mortgage Assn. Increased by $1,625,000,000 the amount of special assistance the President could
authorize the Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA) to commit for purchases of FHA-insured mortgages financing
housing for low-and moderate-income families, for housing activities in urban renewal areas, for housing for the elderly and for
other special types of housing, as follows: $100 million in fiscal 1966; $450 million in fiscal 1967; $550 million in fiscal 1968; and
$525 million in fiscal 1969.
Provided certain exemptions of FHA below-market interest rate mortgages covering low- or moderate-income housing from the
statutory $17,500 limit on the amount of a mortgage that could be purchased by FNMA under its special assistance function.
Authorized FNMA to purchase mortgages covering residential property offered by other federal agencies and other obligations
offered by HHFA; provided further authority for FNMA in its fiduciary capacity to deal in any HHFA obligations.
Title IX. Open-Space Land and Urban Beautification and Improvement. Authorized the HHFA Administrator to enter into
contracts totaling up to $310 million ($75 million under existing law) for grants to states and localities under Title VII of the 1961
Housing Act to acquire land in and around urban centers to create “open-space” areas for recreational, conservation, scenic and
historic purposes. Limited the share of. the total amount which could be used for the open-space program in built-up areas (see
below) to $64 million and for urban beautification (see below) to $36 million.
Provided that the maximum grant for acquisition of open-space land would be 50 percent of the total cost (existing law allowed
up to 20 percent).
Open Space in Built-Up Areas. Authorized the HHFA Administrator to enter into contracts for grants to states and localities to
help finance the acquisition of developed land in built-up urban areas which would be cleared and used as permanent open-
space land (parks, squares, playgrounds, pedestrian malls, etc.); grants could not exceed 50 percent of the cost of land
acquisition and necessary demolition and removal of developments on the sites.
Urban Beautification. Authorized the HHFA Administrator to enter into contracts for grants to states and localities for local
landscaping, park improvement and other urban beautification and improvement; grants could not exceed 50 percent of the
2/8/10 2:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 27file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…using%20and%20Urban%20Development%20Act%20of%201965.webarchive
landscaping, park improvement and other urban beautification and improvement; grants could not exceed 50 percent of the
amount by which the community's activities under the program during any fiscal year exceeded its usual expenditures for
comparable activities, except that up to $5 million of the amount authorized for the section (see above) could be used to make
grants for up to 90 percent of the cost of demonstration projects of “special value,” as determined by the Administrator.
Other Provisions. Limited open-space grants to situations in which they were needed to carry out a unified or officially
coordinated program which was part of a comprehensive urban development plan (existing law required that there be
comprehensive planning to which the proposed land use is important).
Permitted up to $50,000 of the funds available for grants under the title for undertaking and publishing open-space surveys and
other studies in connection with activities under the title.
Title X. Rural Housing. Authorized the Farmers’ Home Administration to make loans to persons in any age group to buy
previously occupied dwellings, farm service buildings and adequate farm land. (Under existing law, such loans could be made
only to elderly persons).
Established a new loan program which authorized the Secretary of Agriculture to make and to insure loans for rural home
improvement with maximum interest rates of: (1) 5 percent to persons of low- and moderate-incomes and (2) a level comparable
to the rates and service charges applicable to loans insured by the FHA to persons of higher incomes. Limited the total amount of
loans that could be made or insured in the low- and moderate-income bracket to a total of $300 million annually, but placed no
limit on the amount of loans or loan insurance for persons of higher income.
Defined a rural area for purposes of the loan program as a place which was not part of or associated with an urban area and
which had: (1) a population not in excess of 2,500; or (2) a population between 2,500 and 5,500, if rural in character.
Increased from $10 million to $50million the authorization for grants to non-profit sponsors to provide low-rent housing for
domestic farm labor.
Extended authorizations for rural housing programs for four years, to Oct. 1, 1969.
Title XI. Miscellaneous. Required the Housing Administrator to report to Congress annually on housing programs under the
jurisdiction of the HHFA.
Increased appropriations authorizations on the following existing programs: urban planning grants, from $105 million to $230
million; federal-state urban affairs training programs, from $10 million to $30 million; public works planning advances, from $20
million to $70 million; and low-income housing demonstration grants from $10 million to $15 million.
Authorized loans to private non-profit corporations to finance the construction of water purification, storage and distribution
systems and sewer systems for rural areas and small communities.
Authorized savings and loan associations to make loans on the security of buildings to be used as college dormitories, fraternity
or sorority houses or for residential purposes by the staffs of community hospitals.
Repealed a provision of the Urban Mass Transportation Act of 1964 (PL 88-365) which required that facilities and equipment
used under the program be U.S. manufactured.
Directed the HHFA Administrator to study and report to Congress within one year of the bill's enactment on (1) methods of
reducing loss to homeowners whose property depreciates because of proximity to airports and (2) methods of housing
construction which would diminish the effect of aircraft noise within such homes.
Authorized federal savings and loan associations to make up to 1 percent of their assets available for overseas housing loans
guaranteed under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961. (Existing law limited participation primarily to national and state banks.)
Background
REFERENCES — 1964 Almanac p. 274; 1961 Almanac p. 188; Congress and the Nation p. 459.
Modern U. S. housing programs, initiated in the. 1930s, had two main purposes, one economic, one social. Home construction
was a key factor in the economy of the nation. As World War II drew to a close, economic planners saw the pent-up demand for
housing, which had been neglected during the war, as a major means of absorbing the labor force to be released from military
service and defense industry. Later, home building was considered an important element in seeking the goal of full employment
and in combatting recessions. More recently its use as a weapon against poverty has been stressed, Equally important in recent
years has been the emphasis on rehabilitation of urban areas, which have been caught in the pressures of rising population,
increased congestion and the flight of the wealthier and better educated groups to the suburbs.
Home construction, including maintenance and repairs, accounts for more than 5 percent of the Gross National Product.
It has been generally agreed, since New Deal days, that the Federal Government has some responsibilities in the housing field
— to stimulate the economy, help communities combat slums and assist special groups, such as veterans, the poor, the elderly,
farmers, minority groups, etc., to obtain decent homes in wholesome neighborhoods. (See 1949 housing policy statement box, p.
367.)
But at no time in the postwar years did housing units assisted by the Federal Government through insurance or subsidy amount
to more than half of the total number of units constructed. From 1945 through 1962, about 19,991,000 non-farm housing units
2/8/10 2:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 27file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…using%20and%20Urban%20Development%20Act%20of%201965.webarchive
to more than half of the total number of units constructed. From 1945 through 1962, about 19,991,000 non-farm housing units
were started. Of these, 12,113,000 were conventional, 4,583,000 were insured by the Federal Housing Administration, 2,607,000
were guaranteed by the Veterans Administration, about 70,000 were aided by direct Government loans and 618,000 were public
housing.
The postwar landmark in housing legislation was the Housing Act of 1949. It pronounced a national housing policy, provided for
an annual housing census, revived and broadened the public housing program, established the controversial urban renewal
program and established a large rural housing program. In later years, the 1949 Act was amended to meet new and special
needs, such as aid for college housing (1950), sales housing for the elderly (1956) and rental housing for the elderly (1959).
Special aid for public works in small communities was provided for in 1955. The 1961 Housing Act initiated programs for aid to
middle- income housing, mass transportation and urban “open spaces” and substantially expanded existing programs to reduce
urban blight and congestion and to improve housing for low-income groups.
Although the 1964 omnibus housing bill was called “bare-bones” and considered one which merely extended most housing
programs into 1965, it included most of the Administration's proposals and a substantial part of the funds requested. It contained
four important new programs: $10 million for construction of low-cost rental housing for domestic farm workers; $10 million in 50–
50 matching grants to train local urban development administrators; $1.5 million over three years for graduate training fellowships
in city planning and $50 million for low-interest loans to property owners in urban renewal areas to help rehabilitate their property
and thereby avoid total demolition and reconstruction (a Republican proposal). The 1964 measure also provided for more ready
capital by authorizing the Federal National Mortgage Assn. to pool its mortgages and sell interests in the pool to private investors.
In addition, the 1964 bill added handicapped persons to the direct-loan, FHA insurance and public housing programs available to
the elderly.
Housing Message
President Johnson March 2 sent to Congress his 1965 housing and urban development message — “Message on the Cities” —
in which he stressed the need to prepare land for new cities and expanding metropolitan areas and to rehabilitate existing urban
areas. Observing that the U. S. population would double in the next four decades, the President said “it is as if we had 40 years
to rebuild the entire United States.” (For text, see p. 1400)
Highlights of the message and the outcome of the requests it embodied:
New Department. The President again asked for creation of a Department of Housing and Urban Development. This had been
unsuccessfully sought by Mr. Johnson and President Kennedy since 1961. The proposed new department would “consist of all
the present programs of HHFA (Housing and Home Finance Agency). In addition it would be primarily responsible for federal
participation in metropolitan area thinking and planning.” The Department was authorized under PL 89-174. (See p. 382)
Rent Statements. In a major departure from previous housing proposals, the President called for a program of rent supplements
for low-and moderate-income families and individuals. To be eligible for a rent supplement, me income of the individual (or
family) had to be too low to obtain standard private housing, but too high to make him eligible for public housing. In addition, an
individual or family had to meet one of the following qualifications: have been displaced by governmental action (such as code
enforcement, urban renewal, public housing projects, nigh-way construction); be 62 years of age or older; be physically
handicapped; or occupy “substandard housing.” The individual or family receiving a supplement was to pay either 20 or 25
percent of his income for rent (20 percent if he was just renting or 25 percent if he was renting with an option to buy the dwelling
unit); the Federal Government was to pay whatever additional amount was required to rent the dwelling unit.
Use of the rental subsidy, the President said, “will make it unnecessary for the Government to assist and even require the
segregation by income level which detracts from the variety and quality of urban life. In the long run this may prove the most
effective instrument of our new housing policy.” Should the program work as well as expected, the President added, “it should be
possible to phase out most of our existing programs of low-interest loans.”
The supplements program, modified to limit payments only to persons whose income was low enough to qualify them for public
housing, was included in HR 7984. Operating funds for the program in fiscal 1966, however, were denied.
Urban Sprawl, New Towns, Community Facilities. To prepare for orderly urban growth, the President proposed:
Federal assistance to promote the development of entire new towns, new communities and new sub-divisions. The “new towns”
package contained two separate provisions: Federal Housing Administration mortgage insurance for loans to private builders to
finance acquisition and development of land, and federal loans to states for land development and subsequent sale of the developed
land to private builders. The new towns proposals were rejected by House and Senate Committees, but the final bill provided FHA
mortgage insurance for private developers of neighborhoods and subdivisions.
A program of matching grants to local governments for basic water and sewer facilities “contingent on comprehensive areawide
planning for future growth.” The request was enacted in HR 7984.
Federal grants to cover interest charges for five years on loans obtained by local public bodies for advance acquisition of land needed
for public buildings and facilities. All were included in HR 7984.
Training for Urban Skills. The President proposed establishment of an Institute of Urban Development as part of the new
Department of Housing and Urban Development. Presumably the Institute would administer several urban training programs
previously instituted by or recommended by the Administration, such as the programs authorized (but never funded) in the 1964
Housing Act providing matching grants to states for special training programs in community development and grants for graduate
fellowships in urban planning. (1964 Almanac p. 274) Legislative enactment of me proposal was not needed. It was expected that
the Institute would be created during 1966 in the reorganization of agencies comprising the new Department.
2/8/10 2:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 9 of 27file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…using%20and%20Urban%20Development%20Act%20of%201965.webarchive
Rehabilitation Assistance. In an effort to compensate for some of the criticism of the “federal bulldozer” image of urban renewal
and yet press rehabilitation of older parts of cities, the President called for combined use of urban renewal funds and public
housing funds to rehabilitate existing housing (rather than tearing it down in urban renewal and public housing programs). The
request was included in HR 7984.
Neighborhood Facilities. In a move designed to “meet the individual's most pressing needs and provide places for recreation
and for meeting with neighbors,” the President recommended a new program of matching grants to help governments build
multipurpose neighborhood centers for health, recreation and similar community services. This was included in HR 7984.
Urban Beautification. The President called for a broadening of the open-space land program authorized by the Housing Act of
1961 to provide grants to assist local bodies in acquiring and clearing land in and around urban centers for creation of small
parks and squares, malls and playgrounds. (Assistance under the existing open-space program was limited to acquisition of lands
that were primarily undeveloped). Mr. Johnson also proposed a new program of special grants to states and localities for local
landscaping, park improvement and other urban beautification and improvement. Both proposals were included in HR 7984.
Community Renewal Programs. To encourage cities to develop “long range programs which take into account human as well as
construction needs,” the President proposed that every city of 50,000 or more develop a “Community Renewal Program” as a
condition for federal urban renewal assistance. “These programs,” the President said, “will provide an orderly schedule and
pattern for development of areas of blight and decay — combining social and educational services with the planning of physical
construction.” No action was taken on the request.
Existing Programs. The President also called for extension, and in some cases expansion, of numerous existing housing and
urban development programs, including FHA insurance activities, urban renewal, low-rent public housing, below-market interest
rate mortgage assistance on housing loans for moderate-income families and other activities. The President did not specify the
new operating levels in his message, however, and they were first outlined in the Administration omnibus housing bill, introduced
in both the House and Senate March 4. Major proposals included:
Urban Renewal. Authorization of an additional $2.9 billion for urban renewal grants, as follows: $675 million upon enactment,
$725 million in fiscal 1967, and $750 million in each of the fiscal years 1968 and 1969. The request was included in HR 7984.
Public Housing. An increase of an annual $47 million over fiscal years 1966–69 in contractual authority for low-rent public
housing projects. Housing authorities said the increased ceiling would provide an additional 60,000 units a year, including 35,000
new units and 25,000 units to be purchased from private homeowners for low-income use. This was included in HR 7984.
Moderate-Income Housing. A four-year continuation, at the rate of 40,000 new units per year, of the program of FHA below-
market interest rate mortgage insurance on housing loans for moderate-income families. This was included in HR 7984.
House
COMMITTEE — Banking and Currency, Housing Subcommittee.
HELD HEARINGS — March 25 — April 7 on HR 5840, the Administration omnibus housing bill (HR 7984, the bill enacted, was a
revised bill that was introduced later), and on HR 6501, an omnibus Republican bill.
TESTIMONY — March 25 — Robert C. Weaver, Administrator of the Housing and Home Finance Agency, presented a detailed
description of the Administration bill and outlined Administration views on major proposals.
Rent Supplements. Calling the rent supplements program a “vital part” of the proposed act, Weaver said the supplements would
provide “decent” housing for families in the income gap between public housing and adequate private housing. He said about four
million families fit this category, of which “almost half are elderly or handicapped, and the others all live in substandard housing.
There are also an estimated 300,000 families who will be displaced from their homes by governmental action over the next four
years, and many of them will be in this income range.”
The Administrator estimated that the supplements would “enable the resources and initiative of private enterprise over the next
four years to finance more than 500,000 dwelling units geared to the needs of lower income families.”
In the questioning that followed Weaver's prepared testimony, Republican members of the Subcommittee contended that the
supplements would be available to numerous people in the $5,000 to $8,000 income range.
Rehabilitation Grants. The success of urban renewal rehabilitation projects, Weaver said, “requires bringing all the property in the
area up to standard… Grants to permit the homeowner to do the job himself would help avoid public acquisition and minimize
displacement of families.” Weaver said the grants would be limited to hardship cases, “generally to avoid displacement of
homeowners who have no other means of financing repairs and improvements which must be made to their homes.”
New Towns. Weaver said that “the rapid rate at which we are consuming urban land” — one million acres in 1964 alone-had
resulted in “sharply climbing land costs and waste and ugliness from disorderly urban sprawl.” He warned that “in the few
decades left in this century, we will double our urban population, double our city land, and do as much building as we have done
since the first colonists arrived on our shores.”
Weaver said that the availability of federal land development mortgage insurance would enable developers “to provide a more
steady supply of improved building sites in an orderly and more economical manner. It should also open up cheaper outlying land
for well-planned development and help combat the rapid rise of prices for homebuilding sites.” The land development area,
Weaver noted, could vary in size from a small, well-developed neighborhood to an entire new community. “In the latter case,” the
2/8/10 2:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 10 of 27file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…sing%20and%20Urban%20Development%20Act%20of%201965.webarchive
Weaver noted, could vary in size from a small, well-developed neighborhood to an entire new community. “In the latter case,” the
Administrator said, “we may expect some additional benefits such as cheaper initial land costs, a better balance of varied housing
and other land uses, and reduced traffic.”
Weaver said the second feature of the “new towns” package, federal loans to states for land development and subsequent sale of
the developed land to private builders, would enable state governments to “become instrumental in fostering comprehensive
planning of new areas expected to be populated within the foreseeable future.”
Community Renewal Programs. Such programs prepared in the past by planning authorities in larger cities, Weaver said, had
“definitely proved their worth, both for urban renewal and other related city functions.” The Administrator added that success of
local urban renewal efforts was becoming increasingly dependent upon coordination among projects, which he said was one of
the central purposes of a community renewal program. Weaver also said that such programs would be “particularly helpful in
coordinating urban renewal with residential development, especially where rehabilitation is feasible.”
Low-Rent Public Housing. Authority to amortize public housing indebtedness over periods shorter than the present 40 years,
Weaver said, “would provide additional flexibility… needed to facilitate the purchase or leasing of older housing” at lower costs
than new construction. The use of previously occupied housing, the Administrator said, “would be particularly useful in areas
where there are substantial vacancies in privately owned housing, especially for large families.”
Water and Sewer Grants. The proposed grants for basic water and sewer facilities, Weaver said, “would stimulate a substantial
increase in local expenditures for… facilities needed for growth and would contribute to the development of efficient areawide
systems which are consistent with local comprehensive planning.”
Neighborhood Centers. “Much of the costs of ill health, juvenile delinquency, dependency, and the problems of old age,” Weaver
asserted, “can be avoided by preventive measures that could be provided by an adequate program of community services which
are urgently needed but are too often unavailable.” Priority for grants, he said, would be given to applications for projects that
“would benefit members of low-income families or otherwise further the objectives of a ‘community action program’ approved by
the Office of Economic Opportunity.”
Advance Acquisition of Land. “Advance acquisition,” Weaver declared, “can avoid the waste of demolishing buildings that
otherwise might be constructed…and can avoid relocating the occupants from their homes or disrupting their businesses. In
addition, knowledge of the location of proposed future works can enable private developers and builders to make adjustments in
their construction plans and schedules which lead to more orderly growth and development of the entire area.”
Open-Space Land Acquisition. Weaver said the current open-space program was limited to assisting in the acquisition of lands
that were primarily underdeveloped, a fact which had “tended to limit….the program to outlying areas of cities and their suburbs.
“He said less than 15 percent of the lands acquired under the program had been located in built-up parts of metropolitan areas.
Weaver said the new authority to acquire developed lands for conversion to parks, squares and malls would “assist in relieving
the congestion, noise, drabness and unbroken monotony of asphalt and brick characteristic of the business and midtown sections
of so many of our cities.”
Urban Beautification and Improvement. Weaver said the new program was “designed to help communities to become more
desirable and pleasant places in which to live, work, play and rear a family.” The programs, locally planned, would have to
“represent significant and effective efforts, involving all available public and private resources, for the beautification and
improvement of open-space and other public land in the community” and would have to be important to the community's
development plan. He said a community would be able to get federal assistance for a variety of measures, including park
development; mall, square and waterfront area improvement; activities “on behalf of the arts,” and development of pedestrian
malls in streets closed to traffic.
Weaver said a community would be encouraged to undertake other beautification efforts on its own, such as the regulation of
signs and utility wires, “zoning to prevent auto graveyards in inappropriate areas, and school programs to foster pride in
maintaining and improving the appearance of the community.”
Of the proposed demonstration grants, Weaver said they could “play a major role in developing new and imaginative approaches”
to urban beautification and “help avoid costly mistakes by other communities.”
March 26 — Dwight D. Townsend, director of the Washington office, Cooperative League of the U.S.A., said that the
Administration bill was “important not just for those who will occupy the housing built, but for all who live in cities, as their welfare
is affected by the housing… and by the over-all development of the cities.”
While endorsing the program of rent subsidies embodied in the bill, Townsend said the existing Federal Housing Administration
(FHA) program of below-market interest rate loans to meet the needs of moderate-income families should not “be phased out in
favor of the rent supplement program…Instead we recommend that it be expanded and improved. We believe that there is a
need for both a below-market interest program and a rent supplement program.”
Rural Housing Program
Howard Bertsch, administrator of the Farmers’ Home Administration, U.S. Department of Agriculture, outlined the rural housing
provisions of HR 5840 and said their enactment would be “a major step toward helping achieve the goal of giving families in rural
America parity of opportunity in housing.”
“The most significant new feature” embodied in the rural housing provisions of HR 5840, Bertsch said, was the authorization of
insured housing loans to persons wishing to build homes in rural areas. This provision, he said, “would enable funding a rural
housing program of reasonable dimensions and accelerating the rate at which the quality of housing on our farms and in our
small towns and villages can be improved.”
2/8/10 2:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 11 of 27file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…sing%20and%20Urban%20Development%20Act%20of%201965.webarchive
Another “important new authority” provided by HR 5840, Bertsch said, would permit the Farmers Home Administration to make
loans to families in any age group to buy previously occupied dwellings, farm service buildings, and adequate farm land. Under
existing law, families other than senior citizens could obtain loans only for new construction or repair of buildings they already
owned. This, Bertsch said, would enable families in rural areas to acquire homes and essential facilities “at considerably less cost
than would be involved if they were to build a new home.”
Other rural housing provisions outlined by Bertsch would: (1) authorize sales of insured housing loans at discounts to private
investors, if necessary, and require any losses from discount sales to be made up annually by appropriation; (2) amend the
Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA) Charter Act to make insured rural housing loans eligible for purchase by the
FNMA under its secondary market operations; (3) authorize the FNMA to buy insured rural housing loans from the Farmers Home
Administration as part of that agency's management and liquidation function. Bertsch said the discount sale of loans to private
investors was necessary because “insured housing loans under the proposed terms might not always be saleable to private
investors at par.” The provisions extending FNMA authority, Bertsch said, would improve the “saleability” of insured rural housing
loans.
Urban Renewal, Public Housing
March 29 — Nathaniel S. Keith, president of the National Housing Conference, criticized as inadequate the proposed $2.9 billion
increase in urban renewal grants over the next four years provided by HR 5840 and the annual increase of $47 million in
obligational authority for new public housing. The urban renewal outlay, Keith said, should be increased to $6 billion and the
annual housing grants doubled to provide for 125,000 new units a year rather than the projected 60,000.
John W. Edelman, president of the National Council of Senior Citizens, also urged that a minimum of 125,000 new public housing
units be built each year over a four-year period. Edelman also said that the Council considered rent subsidies “a valuable and
essential tool and method of meeting current housing needs” for the elderly.
Edelman further asserted that “housing projects for the elderly as far as possible should be built in such a way as not to cause a
kind of segregated situation for the older persons living in these accommodations…. Most of the tenants in such projects are still
physically and mentally alive and…more frequently need and desire a normal community environment and the possibility of
contacts with age groups other than their own.”
Rent Supplements,“New Towns” Criticized
March 30 — Ira S. Robbins, president of the National Assn. of Housing and Redevelopment Officials, called the rental
supplements proposal “administratively cumbersome and socially indefensible.” The goal of providing adequate housing for
middle-income families, Robbins said, could be achieved at lower cost through combined private and public housing
developments and through federal financing of rehabilitated housing.
Robbins also criticized the provisions of the bill which authorized federal assistance to encourage development of new
communities and complete “new towns.” The new towns, Robbins asserted, would merely create greater problems by luring
middle-income families from the central city, allowing it to deteriorate.
April 1 — Philadelphia Mayor James H. Tate, representing the U.S. Conference of Mayors, said in praising the Administration bill
that poor housing had been a cause of the rioting that had broken out in his city during the summer of 1964.
In Philadelphia alone, Tate said, there were 100,000 families who qualified for public housing on the basis of income but could
not be accommodated because of limited facilities.
Ehney A. Camp Jr., executive vice president and treasurer of Liberty National Life Insurance Co., Birmingham, Ala., testifying on
behalf of the American Life Convention and the Life Insurance Association of America, said that the life insurance industry was
opposed to the bill's provisions for “new towns” and for Agriculture Department loans and insurance for rural housing.
Insurance men had “grave doubts,” Camp said, as to whether the “new towns” provisions would accomplish their professed
objective of encouraging “better land use and community planning.” Camp contended that there was “too much danger that
insured loans for the purchase of land on the scale indicated here would lead to speculation and sharply rising land prices.”
April 2 — S. Ross Greenwood, a spokesman for the American Bankers Association said the extension of FHA mortgage
insurance on private loans to land developers as provided by the Administration bill “would be especially useful to many builders
who are willing to undertake the construction of…subdivisions, but who could not do so without an insurance program.”
Greenwood said, however, the Bankers’ Assn. opposed extension of the mortgage insurance for “extensive new developments
which alludes to the development of new towns. Although such a development may if properly conceived and executed be in the
public interest, the present proposal leaves a great area of major policy to the discretion of the Housing Administration.”
Greenwood said that HR 5840 did not sufficiently “spell out the dimensions of this program.”
Edward W. Kiley, Rural Areas Development Specialist of the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association, said the rural
housing loan program authorized by HR 5840 was necessary to stem the record of “consistent out-migration which has been the
pattern (in rural America) for the last 20 years.”
Philip C. Jackson, Jr., a spokesman for the Mortgage Bankers Association of America, endorsed “the idea of rent supplements if
they are restricted to the low-income group, and if they are paid regardless of whether they cover new or existing units so long as
the units are standard and the total rental is a fair market rental.” Assistance to the middle-income group, Jackson said, “should
be limited to the more effective utilization of the FHA-insured loan programs.”
2/8/10 2:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 12 of 27file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…sing%20and%20Urban%20Development%20Act%20of%201965.webarchive
Russell I. Thackrey, a spokesman for the National Association of State Universities and Land-Grant Colleges, called for reduced
interest charges on college housing loans in order to keep “college charges from rising so much that students are priced out of
higher education unless they receive individual aids of various kinds.” The current interest rate of 3.75 percent on such loans,
Thackrey said, should be reduced at least to 3 percent, if not lower.
California Gov. Edmund G. Brown, who did not attend the hearings, submitted a statement calling for expansion of the rental
subsidy proposal to cover existing housing. “By limiting this rent supplement program to proposed construction,” Brown said, “its
implementation would be delayed for a minimum period of two to two and one-half years to allow time for FHA processing and
the required period of construction. Further, there exists in many of the communities of the nation suitable, vacant, standard
housing that could be immediately utilized for the benefit of the vast numbers eligible under this section.”
April 5 — James Q. Wilson, director of the Joint Center for Urban Studies, Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard
University, urged “careful study” of the “new towns” provisions. “If the Congress is satisfied that these new communities will
increase opportunities for disadvantaged families,” he said, “then a federal subsidy — and credit assistance is a federal subsidy
— may be appropriate. If Congress is not satisfied on that score, then I see little reason why the subsidy should be given.”
April 6 — Robert P. Gerholz, a spokesman for the Chamber of Commerce of the United States, contended that HR 5840 greatly
increased “the dependence of local governments on federal subsidies and decisions.” Gerholz proposed that the bill be amended
“so as to encourage stronger local government and to strengthen rather than weaken the private competitive economic system.”
The Chamber, Gerholz said, particularly recommended that Congress “carefully examine the findings from some of the significant
studies of the impact of the current federal subsidy programs, and then assess the usefulness of these programs for solving
problems of community development and renewal.”
April 7 — John E. Krout, chairman of the Mortgage Committee of the National Association of Mutual Savings Banks, urged a
limited experimental approach to the rental supplements program until it had proved itself effective.
Committee Action
The Housing Subcommittee May 7 approved, by a 10–1 vote, a revised version of the Administration's housing bill. The negative
vote was cast by James Harvey (R Mich.). Committee Chairman Wright Patman (D Texas) introduced the amended bill as HR 7984.
Identical bills (HR 7985, HR 7986) were introduced by Housing Subcommittee Chairman William A. Barren (D Pa.) and ranking
minority member Willam B. Widnall (R N. J.).
The full Banking and Currency Committee May 19 ordered HR 7984 reported by a vote of 26–7. All the negative votes were cast
by Republicans. The Committee made no changes in the bill as approved by the Subcommittee.
Changes from Administration Bill. Following are the major changes made by the Subcommittee:
Rent Supplements. The Administration proposal was modified to permit rent supplements to be paid on behalf of a broader group
of people than was possible under the Administration's draft bill. Under the committee proposal, an individual or a family was
made eligible for a supplement if he or it was unable to obtain standard private housing at a rent which was equal to or less than
one-fourth of his or its income. As in the Administration bill, an individual or family also had to be either displaced by
governmental action, at least 62 years old, physically handicapped or occupying substandard housing. The primary effect of the
committee change was to make low-income persons who were eligible for public housing also eligible for rent supplements.
Persons who could obtain public housing were specifically excluded from supplement aid by the Administration's draft bill.
In addition, the Committee required any person receiving supplement aid to pay 25 percent of his income toward the rent of his
dwelling unit; the Administration bill set the amount at 20 or 25 percent depending on whether he was just renting or renting with
an option to purchase.
New Towns. The proposal for federal loans to states for land development and subsequent sale of the developed land to private
builders was dropped. In addition, the Subcommittee limited FHA land development mortgage insurance to neighborhoods and
subdivisions, lowered the ceiling on the amount of mortgages that could be insured in any one project from $25 million to $12.5
million and eliminated the proposal for $500 million in authority for the FNMA to purchase land development mortgages secured
by new towns and new communities.
Water and Sewer Facilities. The proposal for grants to growing communities to cover 40 percent of projects for basic water and
sewer facilities was broadened to cover all communities and the federal share was raised to 50 percent.
The Subcommittee added provisions for:
Special FHA home mortgage insurance for veterans who had not already received a GI home loan. The single-family residence loans
would cover 100 percent (no down-payment) of the first $20,000 and 85 percent of any additional amount up to a total mortgage of
$30,000.
A 3-percent interest rate on three programs — direct housing loans for the elderly, insured mortgage loans at below-market interest
rates for low- and moderate-income families and displaced families, and college housing loans — providing in effect a 1-percent cut in
the interest on these programs.
Public housing authorities to lease existing private housing and make it available to low-income families at normal public housing
charges. This was a modification of a GOP “rent certificate” plan under which families eligible for public housing could rent private
housing and pay for it with certificates redeemable from public housing authorities.
2/8/10 2:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 13 of 27file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…sing%20and%20Urban%20Development%20Act%20of%201965.webarchive
Uniform land acquisition procedures to be followed in connection with the acquisition of land by eminent domain under HHFA
development programs.
GOP Proposals. A number of me Subcommittee amendments — principally the authority to lease existing private housing for
public housing use and the veterans’ loan program — were adapted from a Republican housing bill (HR 6501) introduced by
Widnall.
Committee Report
The Committee May 21 reported the clean bill (HR 7984 — H Rept 365).
Majority Views. The report said the provisions of HR 7984, “taken in concert…will make possible an accelerated attack on the
problems of urban blight, a substantial improvement in housing conditions, in both urban and rural communities, and more orderly
growth of cities and communities of all sizes.
Noting that President Johnson's March 2 Housing Message had emphasized rent supplements as “the most crucial new
instrument” in urban development, the report said that the supplements program would provide “decent, safe and sanitary
housing” for numerous families otherwise unable to afford it. The bill authorized $50 million for the first year of the program, plus
annual step-ups of $50 million in fiscal 1967–1969, when the authorization would total $200 million a year. The rent supplement
funds would be used primarily to finance construction of new moderate-income housing, but could be used for rehabilitation of
existing housing.
The report said the bill's provisions authorizing public housing authorities to take out one- to three-year leases on existing private
housing, for rental on a subsidized basis to low-income families in lieu of public housing, would provide “a very valuable
supplement to the basic program of new construction” of public housing. This program would permit the poor — particularly large
families — to make use of vacant housing rather than “continue to live in slum conditions.” (The bill also authorized $47 million a
year for four years to provide an estimated 60,000 additional units of public housing a year.)
The bill's authority for housing rehabilitation grants, not in excess of $1,500, to families with incomes of no more than $2,000 who
were homeowners in urban renewal areas, would “help reduce the displacement of longtime residents” of the areas whose
relocation might present problems of adjustment as well as greater expense to the Government, the report said.
The report said that the “new towns” mortgage insurance provision had been dropped because there was “considerable
controversy over the plan and experts differ.” The Housing Subcommittee would take up the proposal again later in 1965, it said.
(It did not, however.) The report added that elimination of the new towns proposal reduced the cost of HR 7984 by $500 million by
eliminating the need for that much additional special assistance authority under the Federal National Mortgage Assn. (FNMA).
This left the proposed increase in the FNMA authority at $1,625,000,000, spread out over four years as follows: $100 million on
enactment, $450 million on July 1, 1966, $550 million on July 1, 1967, and $525 million on July 1, 1968. The Administration had
asked for $2.3 billion.
Minority Views. The report contained a statement of minority views, signed by eight of the Committee's 11 Republicans: Fino
(N.Y.), Harvey (Mich.), Brock (Tenn.), Talcott (Calif.), Clawson (Calif.), Johnson (Pa.), Stanton (Ohio) and Mize (Kan.). Fino voted
to report the bill, but signed the minority views, because of opposition to the rent subsidy. Dwyer (N.J.), Halpern (N.Y.) and
Widnall (N. J.) voted for the bill and did not sign the minority views.
The minority views focused on only one aspect of the omnibus bill — rent subsidy proposal, which was termed “a wide-open,
socialistic subsidy formula” and a threat to “the incentive of the American family to improve its living accommodations by its own
effort.”
The minority said the lack of firm guidelines in the law meant that many middle-class families would be eligible for supplements.
The minority statement contained a table showing income ceilings for eligible families that would set for various cities under the
supplements program. The figures ranged from $6,450 to $8,900 annual income and were for residents of cities located primarily
in the Eastern part of the nation. (The statement said the table was submitted to the Committee by the Housing and Home
Finance Agency, but an HHFA official later denied that the agency had prepared the figures.) The statement said that these
ceilings were “purely discretionary” with the administrator of HHFA and “substantially” breached the median national family
income ($6,249) in the case of large families.
The statement also contended that the rent supplements, described by Weaver during testimony as an “experimental” program,
would actually extend to the year 2008 and cost $8 billion. This, the statement said, was because the bill authorized the housing
administrator to enter into 40-year contracts with approved housing owners to pay supplements not exceeding $50 million prior to
July 1, 1966, and an additional $50 million on July 1 in each of the next three years. Thus by fiscal 1969, the minority said, 40-
year contracts totaling $200 million a year could be outstanding.
The statement also criticized the means test set up by the bill to determine eligibility for supplements. Noting the administrative
difficulties of sending official inspectors to check on the means of applicants, the statement said private citizens in the
neighborhoods of persons subject to tests would be cast in the role of “informers.” In support of its contention, the Committee
minority quoted Weaver as telling the Committee that “friends and neighbors” would be “the best investigators that you have in
these projects.”
Individual Views. Florence P. Dwyer (R N. J.) filed a statement asserting that HR 7984, “in so many ways a model of bipartisan
cooperation,” had been “seriously marred” by retention of the Administration's plan. “Although we succeeded in lowering the
income limits so that truly low-income families might be eligible,” she said, “the proposed program continues essentially to be a
subsidy for middle-income families including those well above median income level.”
2/8/10 2:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 14 of 27file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…sing%20and%20Urban%20Development%20Act%20of%201965.webarchive
W. E. Brock III (R Tenn.) and Albert W. Johnson (R Pa.) criticized the reduction to 3 percent of interest rates on the FHA below-
market interest rate loan program and on loans for the elderly and college housing, but noted that their criticism had “nothing to
do with the merit of the programs concerned.”
Burt L. Talcott (R Calif.) said the rent supplements program would “more nearly and more quickly socialize housing than the King-
Anderson bill would socialize medical care.” The “primary motivation” for supplements, Talcott contended, had been removed by
committee approval of a 4-year extension of the FHA below-market mortgage insurance program at a new, lower rate of 3
percent. This, he indicated, effectively covered the housing needs of moderate-income families. FHA insurance of land
development in subdivisions, as provided by the bill, “played into the hands of the land speculator,” he said.
Chester L. Mize (R Kan.) said two provisions of the bill, rent supplements and public housing, proposed benefits for only “1–1/2
percent of the country's families,” while accounting for “50 to 60 percent of the bill's cost.”
Rebuttal of GOP Claims. The Democratic majority on the House Banking and Currency Committee June 11 issued a point-by-
point rebuttal to the minority's statement on rent supplements. The committee print, captioned “Correction of Misleading and False
Statements…” said the figures supplied in the minority report concerning the income limits for large families under the rent
supplement program were not prepared by the HHFA. It said, “In almost every city the present income limit would be $6,000 or
less,” and noted that large families (seven or more persons) were unusual.
Floor Action
The House June 30, by a 245–169 roll-call vote, passed HR 7984 with amendments and sent the measure to the Senate. (For
voting, see chart p. 974)
HR 7984 was passed only after supporters of the bill altered the Administration's rent supplements formula and after a
Republican attempt to kill the entire supplements plan was defeated by six votes.
The compromise proposal on the rent section, which was sponsored by Robert G. Stephens Jr. (D Ga.), limited the payment of
supplements to persons whose incomes were low enough to make them eligible for public housing. (Public housing eligibility
standards varied throughout the nation.) The committee bill covered these persons as well as persons with a somewhat higher
income. Stephens’ amendment was adopted first by a 190–159 teller vote and later by a 240–179 roll-call vote. Under the
provision, an eligible person would pay for rent an amount equal to 25 percent of his income and the government's supplement
would cover the remainder.
Although Stephens’ amendment carried by large margins, the Republicans tried again just before passage to kill the proposal and
nearly succeeded. James Harvey (R Mich.) moved to recommit the bill to the Banking and Currency Committee with instructions to
delete the rent supplement section and, in addition, a provision for home improvement grants to homeowners in urban renewal
areas. The motion was rejected by a 202–208 roll-call vote.
Voting for passage of the bill were 26 Republicans and 219 Democrats. Opposed were 109 Republicans and 60 Democrats, 52 of
mem from Southern states. The eight Northern Democrats who voted against the measure were Morris and Walker (N.M.), Hull,
Jones and Ichord (Mo.), Baring (Nev.), Pike (N.Y.) and Foley (Wash.).
Voting in favor of recommittal were 130 Republicans and 72 Democrats. Fifty-one of the Democrats favoring recommittal were
from Southern states. Opposing the motion were 204 Democrats and four Republicans — Halpern, Horton, Lindsay and Reid, all
from New York.
Retaining the rent supplement provision in the bill — even in the modified form finally approved — was one of the most difficult
struggles for House Democratic leaders in the 89th Congress. Prior to the voting, there were widespread reports that the
supplement program as reported from committee without the public-housing limitation faced certain defeat from a concerted
attack by Republicans and numerous Democrats. The likelihood of defeat was the reason that the bill's supporters agreed to
modify the controversial rent supplement concept.
However, the narrow six-vote margin by which that provision was retained, and the several days of extremely vigorous and at
times acrimonious debate over that and a few other sections, tended to conceal the considerable support the bill in general
commanded in the House. An indication of this was seen in Republican voting on the recommittal and passage votes. Even
though Republicans led the assault on the rent supplement plan and also voted heavily against passage, a number of GOP
members chose to vote for the bill once the supplement issue was disposed of. Thus, in addition to Halpern, Horton, Lindsay and
Reid — who voted for passage but against recommittal — the following Republicans voted for passage after also voting for
recommittal: Ellsworth (Kan.), Mathias (Md.), Bates, Keith and Morse (Mass.), Cleveland (N.H.), Cahill, Dwyer and Widnall (N.J.),
Wydler and Fino (N.Y.), Mosher (Ohio), Corbett, Fulton, McDade, Saylor, Schweiker and Watkins (Pa.), Quillen (Tenn.), Stafford
(Vt.) and O'Konski (Wis.). One Republican, Kunkel (Pa.), who voted for passage did not vote on the recommittal motion.
Debate
A heated three-day debate on HR 7984 began June 28 when Republican opponents of the bill demanded a roll-call vote on the
open rule under which the measure was brought to the floor. The rule was adopted by a 230–115 roll-call vote.
Rent Supplements Debate. Opponents of the supplements program criticized the “gigantic cost” of the rental payments and
contended that me plan was designed to change social patterns of the nation. Paul Fino (R N.Y.) June 28 said the program
sought to “impose federal controls over middle-income housing.” Fino said the measure was without “safeguards to prevent the
housing administrator from moving the poorest people into the best housing.” Harvey June 28 said that no other piece of
legislation to come before the 89th Congress was “so regressive in its social impact, for in no other legislation do we authorize
2/8/10 2:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 15 of 27file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…sing%20and%20Urban%20Development%20Act%20of%201965.webarchive
legislation to come before the 89th Congress was “so regressive in its social impact, for in no other legislation do we authorize
the expenditure of so much to help those who truly need it so little.” Jackson E. Betts (R Ohio) June 29 called the proposal “one of
the most far-reaching and dangerous plans to come before the House in a generation.” Betts added that the supplements were
“foreign to American concepts” and went “to the root of private ownership — killing the incentive of the American family to
improve its living accommodations by its own efforts.”
Proponents of the supplements argued that the program was an important “third alternative” to public housing and slums. Wright
Patman (D Texas), chairman of the Banking and Currency Committee, June 28 called the bill “landmark legislation” which was
closely tied in with the effort to “root out poverty.” William A. Barrett (D Pa.), chairman of the Housing Subcommittee, said June 28
that the rent supplements would “greatly increase the supply of standard housing at reasonable rentals by using the initiative and
resources of private enterprise.” Proponents of the rent supplement proposal said that Bureau of the Census figures showed that
more than three-fourths of the nation's lowest income families currently paid 35 percent or more of their incomes for rent. They
said that the incomes of public housing occupants average about $4,000.
One of the most vituperative exchanges between Democratic backers and GOP opponents of supplements came June 29 when
Republicans attacked the Banking and Currency Committee print rebutting GOP criticisms of the supplements program in the
minority report on HR 7984. Leading the assault on the print, which the Committee had never voted to have published, Harvey
argued that the document was “unauthorized,” “scurrilous,” and did nothing to counter the GOP charges. (Housing Subcommittee
Chairman Barrett earlier in debate said that he had taken full responsibility for the print.) Patman retorted that the rebuttal was
needed to reply to Republicans who claimed that the Democrats “are absurd, that we are ridiculous and that we support and
foster socialism.”
Republican opponents of the supplements continued to assault the program even after the House accepted the Stephens
amendment to make the income eligibility requirements conform with those for public housing. Fino criticized the introduction of
the amendment “at the last minute without any consultation with the minority.” Fino added that the amendment had been
prompted by the “fear of defeat” which had “gripped the majority.”
Other Amendments. After voting to alter the rental supplements program, the House adopted numerous other amendments.
Most significant among them was a proposal by John C. Kunkel (R Pa.) to aid homeowners who were unemployed by the closing
of federal installations. The amendment placed a moratorium on FHA-insured loan payments of such persons and authorized the
Secretary of Defense to acquire properties for FHA disposal when such homeowners certified that they were unable to sell their
properties on reasonable terms. Many of the other amendments adopted by the House were directed to urban development
problems of cities in the districts of the Members who introduced them. Just prior to passage, the House also rejected several
amendments.
PROVISIONS — As passed by the House, HR 7984 embodied essentially the same provisions as the original Administration bill.
The only major differences were these: federal assistance to developers of “new towns” was deleted; rent supplements were
modified to apply only to low-income families; and public housing authorities were authorized to lease existing housing and make
it available to low-income families at normal public housing charges. (See committee action, p. 370, and amendments accepted,
below.)
Amendments Accepted
June 30 — Robert G. Stephens Jr. (D Ga.) — Limit rent supplement payments under the bill to persons who were eligible under
existing income standards for public housing; reduce the appropriations authorized for supplements and provide recipients of
supplements with the opportunity to obtain options to purchase their homes. Teller vote, 190–159, roll-call vote, 240–179.
Abraham J. Multer (D N.Y.) — Bring savings and loan associations in the District of Columbia under regulations of the Federal
Home Loan Bank Board with regard to establishment of a branch or the movement of an office. Voice vote.
William S. Moorhead (D Pa.) — Authorize grant-in-aid credit for land acquisition, demolition and relocation expenses for a Wilkes-
Barre, Pa. urban renewal project undertaken in conjunction with an expansion of campus facilities at Wilkes College. Voice.
Paul A. Fino (R N.Y.) — Broaden coverage of wage requirements in the bill for projects financed by FHA-insured mortgages to
include laborers and mechanics employed by land developers who had received FHA assistance under HR 7984. Voice.
William A. Barrett (D Pa.) — Broaden prevailing federal wage requirements on FHA-assisted projects to include laborers employed
by non-profit corporations in the construction of housing financed by FHA-insured market interest rate loans. Voice.
John J. Flynt Jr. (D Ga.) — Authorize the housing authority of the city of Macon. Ga., to transfer to the local urban renewal
department a tract of land acquired for public housing. Voice.
Joseph M. McDade (R Pa.) — Authorize assistance to cities which must extract underlying coal deposits from redevelopment areas
in order to control underground mine fires. The amendment (designed to aid Carbondale, Pa.) directed renewal projects receiving
royalties on the removal and sale of such coal deposits to credit the royalties as a local grant-in-aid made by the city. Voice.
Byron G. Rogers (D Colo.) — Stipulate that expenses incurred by the city of Denver, Colo., for a proposed cultural and convention
center to be built adjacent to an urban renewal project should be counted as a grant-in-aid toward the renewal project. Voice.
John C. Kunkel (R Pa.) — Provide a moratorium on payments of principal and, in some cases, interest on FHA-insured loans
when homeowners were unemployed as the result of the closing of a federal installation; authorize the Secretary of Defense to
acquire properties for FHA disposal when persons unemployed because of the closing of federal installations certified that they
were unable to sell their homes on reasonable terms. Voice.
2/8/10 2:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 16 of 27file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…sing%20and%20Urban%20Development%20Act%20of%201965.webarchive
G. Elliott Hagan (D Ga.) — Authorize the housing authority of the city of Savannah, Ga. to donate a parcel of land from an urban
renewal project for its private non-profit development as a monument to the service of a Polish count, Count Pulaski, in the
American Revolution. Voice.
Harlan Hagen (D Calif.) — Define the “rural areas” eligible for assistance under the Farmer's Home Administration non-farm rural
loan program as any non-urban area having a population of 5,500 or less. Voice.
John D. Dingell (D Mich.) — Require public bodies and agencies seeking grants for basic water and sewer facilities provided by
the bill to first obtain certification by the Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare that any waste material carried by such
facilities would be “adequately treated” (in accordance with applicable federal, state and local standards) before it was discharged
into any public waterway. Voice.
Bert Bandstra (D Iowa) — Designate local expenditures by the city of Ottumwa, Iowa, in connection with flood control work as a
local grant-in-aid to the Marina Gateway urban renewal project. Voice.
Robert B. Duncan (D Ore.) — Authorize FHA mortgate insurance for refinancing existing housing for the elderly or handicapped
when the Federal Housing Commissioner determined that such refinancing was necessary or desirable. Voice.
Amendments Rejected
June 30 — Leonard Farbstein (D N.Y.) — Stipulate that rent supplements could be paid with respect to accommodations for the
elderly financed through the use of federal funds. Voice vote.
Farbstein — Restrict loans and capital grants for rental or cooperative housing in urban renewal projects to occupancy by low-
and moderate-income families, as determined by local housing authorities. (The amendment exempted loan and grant
applications filed before the bill's enactment). Voice.
Thomas L. Ashley (D Ohio) — Delete language in the bill establishing an interest rate ceiling on college housing loans at the lower
of 3 percent or the existing statutory interest rate formula (which currently provided an actual rate of about 3–3/4 percent). Voice.
Thomas M. Pelly (R Wash.) — Delete language in the bill authorizing the Federal Housing Commissioner to borrow from the
Treasury in order to honor FHA insurance obligations in cash. Standing vote, 37–92.
John P. Saylor (R Pa.) — Add language to the bill to make clear that state-regulated, investor-owned enterprises, as well as public
utilities, could be contracted with to provide water and sewer services to land developed under the FHA-insured loan program
established by the bill. Voice.
John Dowdy (D Texas) — Prohibit public acquisition of privately owned buildings or structures within an urban renewal area if the
owner agreed to make timely improvements or modifications to comply with the approved project plan; authorize reimbursement
of full moving costs, and in some cases, additional payments for business loss, to business concerns or non-profit organizations
displaced by urban renewal; require local urban renewal agencies to certify to the Federal Housing Administrator that standards
used in choosing an urban renewal area were in accordance with local codes and regulations. Voice.
Senate
COMMITTEE — Banking and Currency, Housing Subcommittee.
HELD HEARINGS — March 29 — April 9 on the Administration's omnibus housing bill (S 1354), and 15 other bills relating to
housing and urban development (S 2213, a clean bill reported to the Senate, was introduced later).
TESTIMONY — March 30 - Thomas C. Mann, Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, testified in support of a section of S
1354 to repeal a “buy American” provision of the Urban Mass Transportation Act of 1964. (Section 9 (c) of the 1964 Act required
that contractors “shall use only such manufactured articles as have been manufactured in the United States” in performing work
for which loans or grants were made under the Act.) Mann said Section 9 (c) conflicted with the Administration's policy of
reducing trade barriers.
Sen Wallace F. Bennett (R Utah), a member of the Subcommittee, contended that developers might be able to make
disproportionately large profits out of new towns which could be developed as a result of federal assistance authorized by the bill.
FHA Commissioner Philip N. Brownstein asserted that detailed cost certification would be required for each development project,
ensuring that developers could not make windfall prof its.
April 2 — Boris Shiskin, secretary of the AFL-CIO housing committee, said that the rent supplements program, while an aid to
persons caught in the income gap between public housing and decent private accommodations, was not a “complete solution” to
the problem of housing the disadvantaged. In addition to supplements, Shiskin called for an expansion of the FHA-insured be-
low-market interest rate loan program (under which housing builders may secure FHA-insured loans from commercial banks and
other sources with interest charges lower than rates generally in effect in the housing market) for construction of projects that
would house families whose incomes were too high for public housing but too low to provide adequate private housing. Among
Shiskin's proposals were: (1) establishment of a maximum interest rate of 3 percent for loans granted under the program (the
existing level was about 3–7/8 percent); (2) authority to permit local housing officials to act as sponsors of housing constructed
under the program; (3) an extension of eligibility for such housing to persons of all ages (existing law limited eligibility to the
elderly and handicapped).
2/8/10 2:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 17 of 27file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…sing%20and%20Urban%20Development%20Act%20of%201965.webarchive
Perry E. Willits, president of the National Association of Home Builders (NAHB), said the rent supplements program would enable
private homebuilders to marshal resources “for the first time…on a broad front to build for families of lower income.” Willits urged
that the supplements be applied to rehabilitated housing as well as new apartments.
The NAHB spokesman said, however, that his organization was “flatly and unalterably opposed” to the “new towns” proposal.
This, he said, would “inject Government deeply, irrevocably and inevitably on an expanding scale, into the business of land
development”, in which he said private industry was functioning effectively.
Mayors' Testimony
April 5 — Richard J. Daley, Mayor of Chicago, testifying on behalf of the U.S. Conference of Mayors, contended that some of the
bill's provisions “seek highly desirable objectives but are either unnecessary, premature, or…should be conducted on an
experimental basis.” Rather than provide “a host of new and untried programs,” Daley called for “greater assistance in three areas
— more funding for urban renewal, a flexible and wider-spread rehabilitation program, and a balanced program of metropolitan
development.”
The Chicago mayor proposed that: (1) the bill's provision calling for annual construction of 60,000 new low-rent public housing
units be expanded to provide for an annual increase of 125,000 units; (2) the capital grant provided for this purpose be doubled
to provide $1.5 billion; (3) the federal share of costs of urban renewal projects be increased from two-thirds to three-fourths; (4)
the $2,000 annual income ceiling on families eligible for rehabilitation grants be raised to $3,000.
April 6 — Baltimore Mayor Theodore R. McKeldin, speaking on behalf of the Conference of Mayors, expressed “enthusiasm” for
the Administration housing and urban renewal program but called for enlarged federal grants for urban renewal. Because of
inadequate federal financing, McKeldin said, “some cities have not been able to push ahead at a rate consistent with their
pressing needs for renewal and their capabilities for doing so.” McKeldin suggested that the additional $2.9 billion capital grants
authorization for urban renewal over the next four years be expanded to $6 billion.
Nareb, CNTP Testimony
April 7 — Ed Mendenhall, a spokesman for the National Association of Real Estate Boards, criticized the rent supplements
program by contending that its adoption would eventually mean that supplements would have to be extended to “treat equitably all
families whose housing costs exceed 20 percent of family income.” That, Mendenhall said, “includes at least 40 percent of all
families.”
Robert E. Scott, a director of the National Association of Real Estate Boards, contended that S 1354 was “silent on the need for
reform in the urban renewal program notwithstanding the controversies which have been generated by its critics.” “…Where an
urban renewal project involves predominantly non-residential or non-public re-use,” Scott asserted, “the financial assistance
should be on a loan rather than a grant basis. This would redirect the urban renewal program to its basic objective of upgrading
the housing standards of the American people.” Non-residential or downtown renewal, Scott added, “should be financed ultimately
through local revenues which would be available because of increased income from redeveloped areas.”
Counties, Cities, Farmers
April 8. — Eugene H. Nickerson said in behalf of the National Assn. of Counties that the bill's unrestricted authorization of urban
planning grants provided “the means by which counties can build strong planning departments, which are inevitable requirements
for multi-county regional cooperation.”
Nickerson also endorsed the measure's provision for additional federal assistance to local governments for water and sewer
system construction.
April 9 — James W. Kelley Jr., Mayor of East Orange, N. J., representing the National League of Cities, said that the increased
obligational authority of $2.9 billion for urban renewal grants over the next four years should be raised to $6 billion.
Blue Carstenson, a director of the National Farmers Union, recommended that “a minimum of at least one billion dollars be made
available for the next four years as a sort of revolving fund out of which Farmers Home Administration can make direct housing
loans when necessary.” Repayments, Carstenson said, would make additional appropriations unnecessary by the end of four
years.
Committee Action
Subcommittee Action. The Housing Subcommittee June 4 approved by voice vote a draft bill similar in most respects to S
1354. The principal change was the deletion of the Administration's proposal to assist developers of “new towns.” In specific
actions on the new towns package, the Subcommittee took these actions:
Dropped the proposal for federal loans to states for land development and subsequent sale of the developed land to private builders.
Limited FHA land development mortgage insurance to developers of neighborhoods and subdivisions.
Reduced the ceiling on the amount of mortgages that could be insured in any one project from $25 million to $10 million.
Eliminated the proposal for $500 million in authority for the Federal National Mortgage Assn. (FNMA) to purchase land development
mortgages secured by new towns and communities.
2/8/10 2:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 18 of 27file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…sing%20and%20Urban%20Development%20Act%20of%201965.webarchive
Committee Action, Bill Introduced. The full Banking and Currency Committee June 24 approved the subcommittee bill by a 10–
4 vote after making several changes in the measure (see below).
Voting for approval were 9 of the 10 committee Democrats and one Republican, John G. Tower (Texas). Committee Chairman A.
Willis Robertson (D Va.) joined the other three committee Republicans — Wallace F. Bennett (Utah), Strom Thurmond (S. C.) and
Bourke B. Hickenlooper (Iowa) — in opposing the bill. The committee bill (S 2213) was introduced June 28 by Housing
Subcommittee Chairman John J. Sparkman (D Ala.).
In addition to approving the subcommittee changes on new towns, the full Committee made the following changes in the
Administration's housing proposals:
Rent Supplements. The rent supplements program was “altered by restricting payments to projects in behalf of persons whose
income was low enough to qualify for public housing, as in the House bill. The revised provision retained the categories of eligible
persons set by the Administration (physically handicapped, occupying substandard housing, etc.), but added lower-income
persons whose homes were destroyed or extensively damaged by a natural disaster. The supplements were to cover the
difference between a person's rent and 25 percent of his income. The Committee set aside 10 percent of the appropriations for
rent supplements for an experimental program involving rental supplements covering housing built with the aid of the federal
below-market interest rate housing loan program and the federal housing-for-the-elderly programs.
Other. The Committee provided the following major additions to the Administration's proposals:
A 3-percent interest ceiling on direct housing loans for the elderly and handicapped and on FHA-insured below-market interest rate
mortgage loans for low- and moderate-income families and displaced families. This provided, in effect, a 1-percent cut in interest
charges.
A moratorium on payments of principal and, in some cases, interest, on FHA-insured loans when homeowners were unemployed as
the result of the closing of a federal installation.
Authority for the Secretary of Defense to acquire properties for FHA disposal when persons unemployed because of the closing of
federal installations certified that they were unable to sell their homes on reasonable terms.
Committee Report
The Committee June 28 reported the clean bill (S 2213 — S Rept 378).
Majority Views. The report said the provisions of S 2213, taken together, signified an “all encompassing effort” to improve the
nation's housing conditions and promote urban development.
Noting a “pressing need” for new programs in addition to the “basic tool” of low-rent public housing, the report said the rent
supplements program established by the bill constituted a “dynamic and much-needed means of meeting the housing needs of
lower-income families.”
Eligibility requirements for supplements, the report said, provided “safeguards” which assured that the program would “help only
those families truly in need of assistance.” Periodic recertifications of income, the report added, assured that “such assistance
would be given only so long as the need continued to exist…” In every case, the report asserted, housing provided under the
program would be “low in cost” and “modest in design.”
The report said the Committee had approved the full increase of $2.9 billion in urban renewal capital grants requested by the
Administration because of a “widespread acceptance that the program is an effective tool for the rebuilding and preservation of
cities…” The report traced the expansion of federal urban renewal programs from a level of 253 projects in 86 communities during
fiscal 1953 to a high of 1,783 projects in 806 localities during fiscal 1965.
The report said that the “new towns” mortgage insurance provision had been rejected “after very careful consideration and
deliberation.” The remaining authority for land development mortgage insurance for subdivisions would, the report said,
“encourage the provision of a large supply of properly planned and improved residential building sites” and “open up cheaper
suburban land for planned economic and marketable development… to combat the rapid rise of prices for homebuilding sites.”
The report also said that an administrative interpretation of the college housing loan program had made it necessary to add
language to the bill “to make it clear” that new colleges were eligible for loans if they provided assurance that they would offer a
baccalaureate degree within a reasonable time after completion of projected housing or facilities. Existing law, the report said,
had been intended to cover new institutions, but the HHFA had not financed any new colleges in the 15 years that it had held
authority to do so.
Minority Views. The report contained a statement of minority views, signed by the four Republican members of the Committee
— Wallace F. Bennett (Utah), John G. Tower (Texas), Strom Thurmond (S. C.) and Bourke B. Hickenlooper (Iowa).
The minority said that the bill embodied “new and enlarged urban programs bulging with money and power, designed to step up
the pace of creeping federalism.” The statement contended that “in every instance of federal financial participation” in urban
activities, the bill gave the federal housing administrator the power to “call the signals…usurping the previously inherent right,
duty and responsibility of the locally elected officials.”
The rent supplements program provided by the bill was criticized as a “radical change” from historic public housing which “should
2/8/10 2:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 19 of 27file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…sing%20and%20Urban%20Development%20Act%20of%201965.webarchive
The rent supplements program provided by the bill was criticized as a “radical change” from historic public housing which “should
move more slowly and be more carefully tested than is possible under this bill….” The minority said they hoped that if the
program was approved by the Senate, safeguards would be written in to halt the use of authority to enter into 40-year contracts
under the program “in the event there are indications that the program will not produce the intended results.”
The minority criticized the urban renewal program for enabling cities to enjoy large tax profits on redeveloped land at federal
expense. The statement also asserted that me urban renewal program had failed to provide effective relocation of persons
displaced from their homes by renewal projects.
Individual Views. Committee Chairman A. Willis Robertson (D Va.) filed a statement opposing the bill's provisions for rent
supplements, additional public housing and a 3-percent interest ceiling on direct loans for elderly housing and on FHA-insured
below-market interest rate loans. The supplements, Robertson said, would “breed and foster reliance on the Government and
discourage private initiative.”
Tower, who signed the minority views, filed a statement in which he said that he had voted for approval of the bill “primarily
because of several meritorious programs” (such as housing for the elderly and handicapped, urban renewal, public housing and
FHA mortgage loan insurance operations) and to give the Senate an opportunity to consider the measure.
Thurmond submitted a statement in which he criticized the bill's provision to require the housing administrator to adopt uniform
procedures for acceptance of materials and products found to be “technically suitable” for use in structures approved for FHA-
insured mortgages and loans. Thurmond said the provision might “open the door to the FHA accepting substandard items that
might be classified as “technically suitable.”
Floor Action
The Senate July 15, by a 54–30 roll-call vote, passed an amended version of HR 7984. (For voting, see chart p. 1059)
Prior to passage, the Senate by voice vote substituted the provisions of its own bill, S 2213, for those of HR 7984 as passed by
the House. Senate action sent the measure to conference.
As in the House, the central issue in Senate debate on the bill was the rent supplements. An amendment by-John G. Tower (R
Texas) to delete the program was rejected July 15 by a 40–47 roll-call vote.
The Senate the day before had cleared the way for the vote on rent supplements by rejecting by voice vote an amendment by
Jack Miller (R Iowa) to stipulate that income from all sources should be considered in the income eligibility requirements for
participation in the program. The supplements plan limited coverage to persons eligible for public housing, as did the House bill.
Following rejection of the Tower amendment, the Senate defeated an attempt to restrict the supplements program by sharply
limiting the funds authorized to carry it out. As reported, S 2213 provided that payments could not exceed $50 million a year prior
to July 1, 1966 (fiscal 1966), with the ceiling increased by $50 million in each of fiscal 1967, 1968 and 1969. An amendment by
Tower would have cut these figures to $10 million in 1966 with a $10 million increase in each of the following three years. It was
rejected by a 38–49 roll-call vote. Following that action, Edmund S. Muskie (D Maine) proposed an amendment which limited that
rent supplements authorization to $30 million in fiscal 1966, with increases of $35 million in fiscal 1967, $40 million in fiscal 1968,
and $45 million in fiscal 1969. The amendment was accepted by a 79–6 roll-call. The amounts in Muskie's amendment were the
same as those contained in the House bill.
The Senate July 15 also adopted by voice vote a modified amendment by Minority Whip Thomas H. Kuchel (R Calif.) to broaden
prevailing federal wage requirements on certain projects assisted by the Federal Housing Administration to cover new programs
authorized by S 2213. Kuchel said its intent was the same as a similar provision in the House bill. An attempt the previous day by
Wallace F. Bennett (R Utah) to confine the scope of the Kuchel amendment to residential dwellings for the use of 12 or more
families was rejected by a 35–51 roll-call vote. On July 15, Kuchel revised his own amendment to make it apply only to dwellings
for 12 or more families.
Thirty-three amendments to the bill were accepted during the two days of debate.
DEBATE — Positions voiced by Senators on the rent supplements closely followed party lines. Republican opponents charged
that the plan was a step toward socialism. Democratic proponents replied that the supplements were less socialistic than public
housing, which enjoyed substantial Republican support. The supplements, proponents said, would cost less than public housing
and would enable the Government to collect taxes on homes occupied under the program. They argued that public housing
provided no tax revenues.
Tower July 15 said the supplements program was a “powerful incentive for a person to discontinue being a homeowner and
become a renter on a public dole.” One of the major objectives of the program, Tower contended, was “to create socio-economic
integration” which he said would “get low-income, middle-income and high-income groups all living together.” Tower denied that
his statement had racial implications.
Walter F. Mondale (D Minn.) July 14 called the supplements program a “bold new experiment in providing new housing for poor
families.” Mondale said that the program was necessary because “obstructionists” who interfered with site development had
prevented local housing authorities from building the number of units authorized by previous legislation. Mondale added that
“many of these same people are opposing rent supplements.”
Opposition to the Kuchel amendment, which broadened prevailing federal wage standards on FHA-assisted projects, centered on
a contention that project developers might refuse FHA assistance so as to avoid paying the higher wages. Bennett July 14 said
acceptance of the Kuchel proposal might “reduce the use of FHA guarantees to zero.” Kuchel replied that the prevailing wage
2/8/10 2:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 20 of 27file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…sing%20and%20Urban%20Development%20Act%20of%201965.webarchive
acceptance of the Kuchel proposal might “reduce the use of FHA guarantees to zero.” Kuchel replied that the prevailing wage
statutes, whose coverage was extended under his amendment, would only “require the payment of wages at rates not less than
those prevailing on similar construction in the locality.” “That,” Kuchel said, “…is sound public policy.”
PROVISIONS — As passed by the Senate, HR 7984 embodied the same major provisions as the version approved by the
House. For specific differences, see conference action, (p. 379).
Amendments Accepted
July 14 — William Proxmire (D Wis.) — Broaden the definition of “displaced persons” eligible for public housing to include those
persons whose homes had been extensively damaged or destroyed as a result of a natural disaster. Voice vote.
John G. Tower (R Texas) — Require the Federal Housing Administrator to report to Congress on or before Jan. 1, 1968, on
operations under the bill's provision for Federal Housing Administration (FHA) mortgage insurance for loans to private subdivision
developers. Voice.
Gordon Allott (R Colo.) — Stipulate that expenses incurred by the city of Denver, Colo., for a proposed cultural and convention
center to be built adjacent to an urban renewal project would be counted as a local contribution toward the renewal project.
Voice.
Tower — Require the Housing Administrator to report to Congress on or before Jan. 1, 1968, on operations under the bill's
programs of federal grants for basic water and sewer facilities, neighborhood facilities and advance acquisition of land. Voice.
Claiborne Pell (D R.I.) — John O. Pastore (D R.I.) —Provide that advance federal payments under specified laws for planning of
public works projects would not have to be repaid if construction of a project was undertaken with money from the Public Works
Acceleration Act of 1962. Voice.
Pell-Pastore — Make depressed areas with populations greater than 150,000 eligible for capital grants of three-fourths the cost of
urban renewal projects. (Existing law provided for grants of two-thirds the cost of projects.) Voice.
Fred R. Harris (D Okla.) - A. S. Mike Monroney (D Okla.) — Authorize the Housing Administrator to exempt certain Indian housing
authorities from the preparation of workable programs for community development which are required in conjunction with requests
for federal aid for urban renewal projects. Voice.
Alan Bible (D Nev.)-Howard W. Cannon (D Nev.) — Make funds expended by the city of Reno, Nev., for certain school construction
eligible for credit as a local grant-in-aid to an urban renewal project disrupted by the rerouting or federally aided highway. Voice.
Robert F. Kennedy (D N.Y.) — Exempt FHA below-market interest rate mortgages covering low- or moderate-income housing from
the statutory $17,500 limit on the amount of a mortgage that could be purchased by the Federal National Mortgage Association
(FNMA) under its special assistance function. Voice.
Kennedy — Authorize the Federal Housing Commissioner to raise the current ceiling of $10,000 on FHA-insurable home
improvement loans and rehabilitation loans by up to 45 percent in high cost areas. Voice.
Kennedy — Include in a locality's share of the project cost for an urban renewal or public housing development, any payments
required by state or local law for relocation of families displaced by the project. Voice.
Jack Miller (R Iowa) — Stipulate that rent supplements could not be paid with respect to housing whose operation costs were
greater than those of similar housing in the community. Voice.
Thomas H. Kuchel (R Calif.) — Add language to ensure mat certain student cooperative associations were able to obtain college
housing loans. Voice.
Kuchel — Permit urban renewal assistance under certain circumstances even though cities had previously received federal loans,
grants or assistance for renewal of the same area. (The wording of the amendment limited its effect to the city of San Francisco,
which had been unable to receive renewal assistance for a blighted, wartime housing area because the city's purchase of the
area from the Federal Government at cost had been considered a grant). Voice.
Vance Hartke (D Ind.) — Make certain expenditures for the purchase of land and buildings by a hospital foundation in Michigan
City, Ind., eligible for consideration as a local grant-in-aid to a community facilities project. Voice.
Joseph S. Clark (D Pa.) — Authorize cities which must extract underground coal deposits from redevelopment areas in order to
control underground mine fires to use the value of the coal in connection with the project. The amendment (designed to aid
Carbondale, Pa.) specified that renewal projects receiving royalties on the removal and sale of such coal deposits could credit the
royalties as a local grant-in-aid made by the city. Voice.
J.W. Fulbright (D Ark.) — John L. McClellan (D Ark.) — Add language resolving a legal technicality delaying the Hobo Jungle Urban
Renewal project in Texarkana, Ark. Voice.
Tower — Direct the Housing Administrator to undertake a study of the existing low-rent public housing program with a view to
strengthening the program or establishing an alternative approach stressing an increased role for private enterprise; authorize
necessary funds and direct the Housing Administrator to report his findings and recommendations to the President for submission
to Congress within two years of the appropriation. Voice.
George A. Smathers (D Fla.) — Authorize federal savings and loan associations to make up to 1 percent of their assets available
2/8/10 2:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 21 of 27file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…sing%20and%20Urban%20Development%20Act%20of%201965.webarchive
for overseas housing loans guaranteed under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961. (Existing law limited participation essentially to
national and state banks.) Voice.
Joseph D. Tydings (D Md.) — Daniel B. Brewster (D Md.) — Permit cities which elect to receive three-fourths of the direct urban
renewal project expenses (rather than two-thirds of the total cost of a project) to include in their reimbursable expenses the costs
of certain planning staff services. (The amendment was intended to assist the city of Baltimore, one of the few cities which used
the three-fourths formula.) Voice.
Edward M. Kennedy (D Mass.) — Provide financial assistance to assure preservation of historical structures through relocation of
the structure in an urban renewal area. Voice.
John J. Sparkman (D Ala.)-Tower — Correct a technical error in existing law by stipulating that federal credit unions could
participate in the home improvement loan program established by the National Housing Act. Voice.
July 15 — Harris — Extend the college housing loan program to cover residential vocational schools which were publicly
supported and administered by a fully accredited, degree-granting, four-year college or university. Voice.
Edmund S. Muskie (D Maine) — Reduce the authorization for rent supplements from $50 million in fiscal 1966 and an additional
$50 million in each of the next three fiscal years to $30 million in fiscal 1966, and additional amounts as follows: $35 million in
fiscal 1967, $40 million in fiscal 1968, and $45 million in fiscal 1969. Roll-call, 79–6.
Hugh Scott (R Pa.) — Count certain school expenditures made by the city of Chester, Pa., as local grants-in-aid for federally
assisted urban renewal projects. Voice.
Kuchel — Broaden prevailing federal wage requirements on FHA-assisted projects to cover programs established by S 2213.
Voice.
Tower — Require the Housing Administrator to report to Congress on or before Jan. 1 of each year on operations under the bill's
rent supplements program. (The amendment deleted a provision requiring the Housing Administrator to submit only one report —
by Jan. 1, 1968.) Voice.
Tower — as modified by Sparkman — Establish a special FHA home mortgage insurance program for veterans who had not
already received a GI loan; stipulate that the single-family residence loans were to cover 100 percent (no down payment) of the
first $15,000 and 90 percent of any additional amount up to existing FHA maximum of $30,000; limit eligibility to veterans who had
served for 90 days or more after Sept. 16, 1940. (The original Tower amendment provided for FHA coverage of 100 percent of
the first $20,000 and 85 per cent of any additional amount. Also, under the original amendment, pre-World War II veterans were
eligible for the loan program). Voice.
Jacob K. Javits (R N.Y.) — Amend the Housing Act of 1964 to increase from a flat $50 million to $100 million per fiscal year the
authorization for housing rehabilitation grants in urban renewal areas. Voice.
Javits — Direct the Housing Administrator to study and report to Congress within one year of the bill's enactment on: (1) methods
of reducing loss to homeowners whose property depreciates because of proximity to airports and (2) methods of housing
construction which would diminish the effect of aircraft noise within such homes. Voice.
Muskie — Reduce the downpayment that a person must make on a home valued between $20,000 and $30,000 (where the
purchase was financed under a regular FHA insured mortgage) from 25 to 15 percent of the excess of the property's value over
$20,000. Voice.
Miller-Wayne Morse (D Ore.) — Preclude federal urban renewal assistance for acquisition, disposition or demolition of buildings
other than ones of substandard quality. The amendment defined “substandard” as any building which can not be improved or
modified for integration into the local renewal plan or whose owner is not financially able to make timely improvements or
modifications. Voice.
John J. Williams (R Del.) — Direct the Housing Commissioner to study possible means of improving the FHA program for the
insurance of mortgages on multi-family housing and report his findings and recommendations to Congress on or before Jan. 1,
1966. Voice.
Amendments Rejected
July 14 — Jack Miller (R Iowa) — Stipulate that income from all sources should be included in the income eligibility requirements
for participation in the rent supplements program established by the bill. Voice vote.
Wallace F. Bennett (R Utah) — Modify an amendment by Thomas H. Kuchel (R Calif.) — see above — broadening the prevailing
federal wage requirements on projects assisted by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) to cover programs established by
me bill. The modification confined the scope of the Kuchel amendment to residential dwellings for the use of 12 or more families.
Roll-call vote, 35–51.
July 15 — John G. Tower (R Texas) — Delete language in the bill providing a program of rent supplements to low-income families.
Roll-call 40–47.
Tower — Reduce the authorization for rent supplements from $50 million in fiscal 1966, and an additional $50 million in each of
the next three fiscal years to $10 million in fiscal 1966 and an additional $10 million in each of the following three years. Roll-call,
38–49.
2/8/10 2:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 22 of 27file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…sing%20and%20Urban%20Development%20Act%20of%201965.webarchive
Vance Hartke (D Ind.) — Limit federal urban renewal assistance for construction of parking lots in certain cities to the amount that
cannot be recovered through parking fees. Voice.
Conference
The Senate July 26 by voice vote and the House July 27 by a 251–168 roll call approved the conference report (H Rept 679) on
HR 7984 and cleared the measure for the President's signature. (For voting, see chart p. 982).
Cost of the bill, to be allocated over a four-year period, was estimated at $7.8 billion by housing officials. The officials said that
approximately 60 percent of the funds authorized for the measure represented outright grants, while the remaining 40 percent
was earmarked for interest-bearing loans.
Prior to Senate approval of the conference report, John J. Sparkman (D Ala.), floor manager of the bill, called HR 7984 “one of the
most comprehensive housing bills ever written by the Congress.” In the House, William A. Barrett (D Pa.), chief sponsor of the bill,
said the measure “should help us reach the goal of decent housing for every American family.” In both House and Senate, the
only significant opposition to the conference report was directed to the rent supplements plan.
The Senate version of HR 7984 carried an authorization of $7.5 billion for housing programs, while the House bill authorized $6
billion. The wide difference in authorization between the two bills was attributable to two factors:
A number of new programs and a broadening of existing ones provided under the Senate bill but not under the House measure;
Certain dollar ceilings that were placed on authorizations for programs by the Senate bill but were left open-ended by the House
measure and were consequently not counted in the cost estimate of the House version.
The conference committee agreed to virtually all the new programs established by the Senate, with only a few minor
modifications, and to several other new programs authorized only under the House measure. These actions increased the cost of
the final bill to approximately $300 million more than under the Senate version.
The conference report was filed July 23. On major differences between the House and Senate versions of HR 7984, conferees
took the following actions:
Rent Supplements
Experimental Program. Accepted the Senate's experimental program to provide up to 10 percent of total rent supplement funds
for payments for eligible tenants in housing projects financed (1) by Federal Housing Administration (FHA) insured, below-market
interest rate mortgage loans for low- and moderate-income families and displaced families, (2) by FHA-insured mortgage loans
for housing for the elderly and (3) by FHA direct loans for housing for the elderly. Confined the scope of the program to existing
housing units and earmarked one-half of the funds provided by the 10-percent wording for housing built with below-market
interest rate loans and one-half for the other two types of housing. The conference report said the earmarking was done to
ensure equitable allocation of funds between projects.
Operating Costs Limit. Agreed to a Senate provision, not in the House bill, which barred the payment of rent supplements for
housing which had operating costs greater than those of similar housing in the community.
Extension of Eligibility. Accepted Senate language, not contained in the House bill, broadening the definition of “displaced
persons” eligible for rent supplements to include persons whose homes had been extensively damaged or destroyed in a disaster
area after April 1, 1965.
FHA Programs
Mortgage Insurance on Land Development Loans. Agreed to the Senate's $10 million ceiling on the aggregate amount of
outstanding mortgages for a single land undertaking assisted by FHA under the provision. The House measure authorized a
ceiling of $12.5 billion.
Water and Sewer Facilities. Agreed to Senate language permitting either a public sewer system or an adequately regulated
private one on land developed under FHA assistance. The House bill required a public water and sewer system, but allowed for a
private system under highly restricted conditions.
Home Improvement Loans in High-Cost Areas. Accepted a Senate provision, not in the House bill, authorizing the Federal
Housing Commissioner to raise the current ceiling of $10,000 on FHA-insured home improvement loans by up to 45 percent in
high-cost areas.
Optional Cash Payment of FHA Benefits. Agreed to a House provision authorizing the Housing Commissioner in his discretion to
pay benefits derived under FHA insurance programs either in cash or in debentures (a negotiable interest-bearing note) and to
borrow from the Treasury for the cash payments as he deemed necessary. The Senate bill authorized cash payments of benefits
but did not provide for Treasury borrowing.
Veterans Loans. Agreed to a Senate provision stipulating the following down payments on a special FHA mortgage insurance
program established under both bills for veterans who had served for 90 days or more: no down payment on the first $15,000; 10
percent between $15,000 and $20,000; and 15 percent between $20,000 and the ceiling of $30,000. Deleted Senate language,
however, limiting participation to veterans whose tours of duty had ended on or after Sept. 16, 1940.
2/8/10 2:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 23 of 27file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…sing%20and%20Urban%20Development%20Act%20of%201965.webarchive
Refinancing of Housing for the Elderly. Rejected a House provision authorizing FHA mortgage insurance for refinancing existing
housing for the elderly or handicapped. The Senate bill did not contain the provision.
Downpayment Requirement. Modified Senate language that reduced the downpayment that a person must make on a home
valued between $20,000 and $30,000 where the purchase was financed under a regular FHA-insured mortgage. The conferees
cut the downpayment on the value of the home above $20,000 from 25 percent to 20 percent. The Senate had cut the
downpayment to 15 percent. The House bill did not contain the provision.
Mortgage Moratorium. Accepted Senate language limiting to one year a moratorium period on payments under FHA or Veterans
Administration mortgages in the case of a mortgagor who is unemployed by the closing of a federal installation. The House bill
provided a moratorium period of up to three years.
Urban Renewal
Community Development Plans. Agreed to a Senate provision permitting inclusion of non-renewal areas in community
development plans when such areas had “specially related problems” and stipulating that all projects in the area should be
initiated within an eight-year period of the plan's formulation. The House provision permitted the plans to cover any adjoining
area and stipulated that all projects in the plan area should be completed in 10 years.
Demolition Costs. Accepted a Senate provision, not in the House bill, to authorize grants to local authorities of up to two-thirds
the cost of demolition of unsafe structures in urban renewal areas or other areas which had workable programs and met specified
conditions.
Code Enforcement. Adopted a Senate provision, not in the House bill, authorizing grants for housing code enforcement by local
governments for use in deteriorating or deteriorated neighborhoods (existing law provided grants for this purpose in urban
renewal project areas).
Rehabilitation Loans. Accepted Senate language doubling the $50,000,000-per-year ceiling on rehabilitation loans and
terminating the program on Oct. 1, 1969. The House bill provided the same termination date, but removed the ceiling on the
loans.
Parking Facilities. Rejected a House provision, not in the Senate bill, which limited federal urban renewal assistance for
construction of parking lots in certain cities to the amount that could not be recovered through parking fees.
Local Grants-in-Aid. Agreed to Senate provisions, not in the House bill, relating to specific urban renewal projects in numerous
cities throughout the country.
Public Housing
Sale of Projects. Accepted a Senate provision, not in the House bill, permitting the Public Housing Administration (PHA) to sell a
federally owned public housing project to a non-profit local group (as well as a local public housing agency) and requiring that the
sale be for continued use as low-rent housing.
Rental Gap. Adopted Senate language exempting displaced families from the requirement of a 20-percent gap between the
upper rental units for public housing and lowest private rents. A similar House provision eliminated the 20-percent gap altogether.
Purchase by Tenants. Accepted Senate language, not in the House bill, permitting tenants to purchase certain public housing
units under specified terms and conditions. The original provision applied to detached, semi-detached or row-housing units, but
was confined to the first two types under the conference substitute.
Other Provisions
Compensation of Condemnees. Agreed, with minor modifications, to House provisions, not in the Senate bill, establishing uniform
procedures to be followed in connection with acquisition of land by eminent domain under certain federally sponsored
development programs.
College Housing. Accepted Senate provisions, not in the House bill (1) to make clear that new colleges were eligible for loans
when they provided the assurance that they would offer the baccalaureate degree within a reasonable period of time and (2) to
extend eligibility to technical and vocational institutions which were operated by fully accredited, degree granting, four-year
colleges or institutions and provided housing for all or part of their students.
Agreed to a House provision, not in the Senate bill, establishing an interest rate ceiling on college housing loans at the lower of
either 3 percent or the existing statutory interest rate formula (which at the time of conference provided an actual rate of about 3
3/4 percent).
Rehabilitation Grants on Deteriorated Housing. A-greed to a Senate provision establishing an income ceiling of $3,000 for
eligibility for a program authorizing grants of up to $1,500 for costs of repairs and improvement of homes in urban renewal areas.
Smaller grants were permitted for persons with incomes above $3,000. The House bill authorized grants up to $1,500 for
homeowners with incomes of $2,000 or less and provided for smaller grants to homeowners whose incomes exceeded $2,000.
Use of Vacant Housing. Adopted a House provision to lease up to 10 percent of vacant units in an existing private structure for
one-to three-year occupancy by low-income families at normal public housing charges. Made the program contingent, however,
upon me approval of local governing bodies.
2/8/10 2:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 24 of 27file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…sing%20and%20Urban%20Development%20Act%20of%201965.webarchive
Community Facilities. Agreed to Senate provisions, not in the House bill (1) authorizing grants of up to 90 percent of the cost for
sewer facilities in small communities where no such facility existed and where unemployment was high; (2) specifying that grants
for sewers could not include treatment facilities which were eligible for assistance under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act;
(3) and authorizing grants to local public bodies and agencies to assist in the acquisition of land for future construction of public
works and facilities.
Also agreed to a Senate provision fixing dollar amounts on authorizations for water and sewer grant programs provided by the
Senate bill (including the sewer provision above and other provisions which were the same in Senate and House bills). Modified
the provision, however, to increase the fiscal 1966 authorization from $100 million to $200 million — the same ceiling as provided
over each of the three fiscal years 1967–69. The House bill did not fix a dollar amount on the water and sewer grant programs.
Open-Space Land and Urban Beautification. Agreed to Senate provisions which authorized grants providing higher percentages of
the costs of open-space projects and urban beautification programs than authorized under the House bill.
In other conference action, the managers of the bill:
Adopted numerous Senate amendments, some with minor modifications, establishing new housing and urban development
programs, broadening the scope of existing ones and placing a dollar ceiling on programs that had been given open-ended
authorizations under the House bill.
Rejected certain House provisions, primarily relating to rural housing.
President Signs Bill
In signing the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965 (PL 89 - 117 ), President Johnson Aug. 10 called the bill a
housing “breakthrough” paralleled in recent years only by the Housing Act of 1949. “And in years to come,” the President added,
“I believe this Act will become known as the most valuable housing legislation in our history…. There is embodied in this
legislation that generosity of vision, that breadth of approach, that magnitude of effort, with which we must meet all of our
challenges here in America.”
Appropriations
Housing and Home Finance Agency funds approved during the first session of the 89th Congress were appropriated in three
bills.
The second supplemental appropriations bill for fiscal 1965 (HR 7091 — PL 89-16) provided $48.5 million to finance various programs.
The appropriation included $30 million for urban renewal, $10,180,000 for rehabilitation loans for homeowners in urban renewal areas
and $8,320,000 for public housing. Administration-requested funds for a new training program in community development and for
urban planning fellowships were not appropriated. (See p. 227)
The independent offices appropriations bill for fiscal 1966 (HR 7997 — PL 89-128) provided $1,038,861,200 in funds for the HHFA.
Major appropriations provided by the bill were $438,675,000 for urban renewal, $260 million for urban mass transportation grants, and
$220 million for public housing. Denied again were Administration-requested funds for the training program in community development
and for urban planning fellowships. (See p. 154)
The general supplemental appropriations bill for fiscal 1966 (HR 11588 — PL 89-309) provided the first major funding of the Housing
and Urban Development Act of 1965 (PL 89 - 117). Major outlays provided by the bill included $1.4 billion for urban renewal,
$100 million for grants for construction or improvement of basic water and sewer facilities, $50 million for direct housing loans for the
elderly and handicapped, $26,975,000 for open-space land grants, $12 million for grants to assist local public bodies and agencies in
financing neighborhood facilities and $8,162,000 for urban planning grants. Administration-requested contract authority and operating
funds for the rent supplements program were not provided. (See box and story p. 182)
Features
‘Great Society’ Speech
Following is an excerpt from. President Johnson's May 22, 1964, “Great Society” speech at the University of Michigan in Ann
Arbor: (For complete text, see 1964 Almanac p. 874.)
…Many of you will live to see the day, perhaps 50 years from now, when there will be 400 million Americans: four-fifths of them
in urban areas. In the remainder of this century urban population will double, city land will double, and we will have to build
homes, highways and facilities equal to all those built since this country was first settled. So in the next 40 years we must rebuild
the entire urban United States.
Aristotle said, “Men come together in cities in order to live, but they remain together in order to live the good life.”
It is harder and harder to live the good life in American cities today. The catalogue of ills is long: There is decay of the centers
and the despoiling of the suburbs. There is not enough housing for our people or transportation for our traffic. Open land is
vanishing and old landmarks are violated. Worst of all, expansion is eroding the precious and time-honored values of community
with neighbors and communion with nature. The loss of these values breeds loneliness and boredom and indifference. Our
society will never be great until our cities are great. Today the frontier of imagination and innovation is inside those cities, and not
beyond their borders. New experiments are already going on. It will be the task of your generation to make the American city a
place where future generations will come, not only to live but to live the good life.
2/8/10 2:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 25 of 27file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…sing%20and%20Urban%20Development%20Act%20of%201965.webarchive
Controversial Rent Supplements Retained in Bill
The most publicized feature of the 1965 housing bill — and also the most controversial — was a modified Administration proposal
of rent supplements to individuals and families who could not obtain standard private housing within their own incomes. The
following is a description of how the program was intended to operate and a summary of the issues that arose during
Congressional consideration of me plan.
OPERATION. Eligibility Requirements. Rent supplement payments were to be made only on behalf of individuals or families
whose incomes were low enough to make them eligible for public housing. (The income limit varied throughout the country.)
Administrative regulations specified mat total assets and net worth had to be under $2,000 (or $5,000 in the case of the elderly).
In addition, eligibility under the law was limited to individuals who were either physically handicapped, elderly (62 years of age or
older), displaced or expected to be displaced by governmental action (code enforcement, highway construction, etc.), or occupants
of housing in an area affected by a natural disaster.
Amount of Payment. The amount of any supplement payment was limited to the difference between 25 percent of the applicant's
income (which he would pay for rent) and the fair market rental charge for his dwelling. The actual payment was to be made to
the housing owner on behalf of the occupant. As the income of the occupant rose, the supplement payment was to decline until
he could pay the entire rent; when this occurred, the occupant could continue to live in the same unit without a supplement.
Project Eligibility. Payments were permitted only with respect to new or extensively rehabilitated housing projects sponsored by
private non-profit or limited-dividend corporations or by housing cooperatives. Housing project owners were to obtain private,
federally insured loans for construction and were to select the tenants.
Types of Structures. Any type of residential structure was eligible for supplement tenants, but safeguards were provided to insure
that they were of “modest design” and cost.
Increase in Income. Required each tenant (except the elderly) to report any increase in income so that there might be a
corresponding decrease in the rent supplement payment.
ADMINISTRATION PROPOSAL. In the form originally proposed by the Administration, the rent supplements program provided
assistance to persons of moderate and low income, but specifically excluded persons who earned so little that they qualified for
public housing. Housing officials said that they hoped to assist what they called “middle-income” families with an “income gap”
between public and private housing. By this they meant families or individuals with incomes too high to permit them to live in
public housing but too low for them to afford good private housing. Additional eligibility tests were provided, such as age, physical
handicap and occupancy of substandard housing. Under the Administration proposal, the occupant was to pay 20 percent of his
income for rent (or 25 percent in the case of a lease with option-to-purchase) and the Government was to pay whatever
additional amount was required for the dwelling unit.
During Congressional hearings on the bill, it became apparent that the proposal had to be drastically modified if it were to be
salvaged at all. The powerful public housing lobby, represented by the National Assn. of Housing and Redevelopment Officials,
criticized the plan as “administratively cumbersome and socially indefensible.” The goal of providing adequate housing for
moderate-income families, the association said, could be achieved at lower cost through combined private and public housing
developments, federal financing of rehabilitated housing, and traditional public housing. Numerous other civic, labor and business
groups asserted that it would be indefensible to subsidize moderate-income housing while a large backlog of low-income families
still sought Government aid.
Changes in Plan. Important modifications were made in the Administration plan (primarily the eligibility requirements) before the
proposal became law. First, in the House Banking and Currency Committee, eligibility was extended to cover persons who could
not obtain standard private housing at rents equal to or less than one-fourth of their income (and also could meet the age and
other qualifications noted above). Later (on the House floor and in the Senate Banking and Currency Committee) the proposal
was further modified to permit supplements to be paid only on behalf of persons whose income level qualified them for public
housing occupancy (and who met the other qualifications). This requirement was enacted. Thus, the person who was made
eligible for rent supplements under the final bill was the same person specifically excluded from the original Ad-ministration
proposal.
Criticism Continued. Even after the modifications that were included in the final bill, opponents of supplements continued to
criticize the “gigantic cost” of the rental payments and charged that the program was designed to disrupt the social patterns of
the nation. One critic, Sen. John G. Tower (R Texas), said that a major objective of the program was to create “socio-economic
integration” which he said would “get low-income, middle-income and high-income groups all living together.” (Tower denied that
his statement had racial implications.) Rep. Paul A. Fino (R N. Y.) said the program was “a social planner's dream disguised in
housing terminology (by) giving the Housing Administrator a blank check to federalize American residential patterns and subsidize
forced economic integration.”
Funds Denied. Under renewed criticism, led by Republicans, funds to put the program into operation in fiscal 1966 were denied
by Congress at the end of the session. Critics said the Federal Housing Administration, in proposed rent supplement regulations,
provided higher income limits for eligibility man was intended by the authorizing legislation. (See p. 182, 381)
Description of Major Federal Housing Agencies
The Department of Housing and Urban Development was created Sept. 9, 1965, under PL 89-174, with responsibility for the
principal housing, home finance and community development functions of the Federal Government. HUD essentially was a
transformation of the Housing and Home Finance Agency (HHFA), and its constitutent parts, to a Cabinet-level department.
Initially, HUD continued to operate with virtually no change in personnel or organization from the HHFA, pending the appointment
2/8/10 2:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 26 of 27file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…sing%20and%20Urban%20Development%20Act%20of%201965.webarchive
Initially, HUD continued to operate with virtually no change in personnel or organization from the HHFA, pending the appointment
of a Secretary in 1966. With the appointment, the only major change expected was the transfer of over-all supervision and
coordination of constituent agencies from the Office of the HHFA Administrator to an Office of the Secretary.
HHFA, as created on July 27, 1947, under Reorganization Plan No. 3, consisted of an Office of the Administrator and five
operating units or agencies — the Federal Housing Administration, the Public Housing Administration, the Federal National
Mortgage Assn., the Community Facilities Administration and the Urban Renewal Administration. The first three had their own
authority in law and the powers of each were invested in a commissioner or, in the case of FNMA, a board of directors. The CFA
and the URA, however, were created administratively by the HHFA as part of that agency. The powers of these two units legally
were held by the HHFA Administrator.
The divisions carry on the following functions:
Office of the HHFA Administrator — Besides supervising and coordinating the constituent parts of the Agency, the Administrator must
approve community programs for the prevention and elimination of slums and blight conditions in order to establish a community's
eligibility for federal urban renewal assistance, dispose of certain federally owned housing properties and supervise certain disaster
and relief activities relating to housing.
Federal Housing Administration — The FHA was created by the National Housing Act of 1934 in order to encourage the improvement
of housing standards, to provide a system of mortgage insurance and help stabilize the mortgage market. It insures approved private
lenders against loss on mortgage loans made for property improvement, land development co-operative housing projects, one- to four-
family sales housing units, rental projects, armed services housing, and the construction or rehabilitation of housing in urban renewal
areas.
Public Housing Administration — PHA was created July 27, 1947, to administer the low-rent public housing program authorized by the
1937 Housing Act.
Federal National Mortgage Assn. — FNMA was originally chartered on Feb. 10, 1938, and is authorized to conduct secondary market
operations by buying Government-insured or guaranteed mortgages where and when investment funds are in short supply and by
selling such mortgages where and when investment capital is readily available. FNMA also has special assistance functions to support
selected types of home mortgages pending establishment of their marketability and in order to prevent a decline in mortgage-lending
and home-building activities.
Community Facilities Administration — The CFA was established Dec. 23, 1954, and provides technical and financial assistance to
public bodies and to non-profit organizations in planning, financing and constructing community facilities, such as college housing;
sewer, water and other public works; advance planning for public facilities; housing for the elderly; and certain school construction.
Urban Renewal Administration — The URA was established Dec, 23, 1954, and administers the federal program of slum clearance and
urban renewal, the urban planning assistance program and the program for developing improved techniques for preventing and
eliminating urban blight.
Other Programs — Other federal activities in housing include: the Veterans Administration's loan guarantee and direct loan programs,
the farm housing programs administered by the Secretary of Agriculture and the Farmers Home Administration of the Department of
Agriculture, and the activities of the Federal Savings and Loan System, the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp. and the Federal
Home Loan Bank System.
Housing Policy
“The Congress hereby declares that the general welfare and security of the Nation and the health and living standards of its
people require housing production and related community development sufficient to remedy the serious housing shortage, the
elimination of sub-standard and other inadequate housing through the clearance of slums and blighted areas, and the realization
as soon as feasible of the goal of a decent home and suitable living environment for every American family, thus contributing to
the development and redevelopment of communities and to the advancement of the growth, wealth and security of the Nation.”
Housing Act of 1949
Rent Supplements Positions
During hearings on the President's omnibus housing bill before Housing Subcommittees of the House and Senate, representatives
of the following major labor, agricultural, construction, banking and civic organizations testified on the Administration's rental
supplements proposal. Among the groups favoring the concept of supplements, few endorsed the original, Administration plan.
Some called for a broadening of the provision to cover a wider range of income groups, and others for a restriction of the
program to persons whose income was low enough to qualify for public housing.
Groups in favor of supplements:
American Bankers Assn.
AFL - CIO
Apartment Assn. of America
Joint Center for Urban Studies of MIT and Harvard University
Mortgage Bankers Assn. of America
2/8/10 2:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 27 of 27file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-…sing%20and%20Urban%20Development%20Act%20of%201965.webarchive
National Assn. of Home Builders
National Conference of Catholic Charities
National Council on the Aging
National Council of Senior Citizens
National Farmers Union
National Federation of Settlements and Neighborhood Centers
Groups opposed:
Chamber of Commerce of the United States National Assn. of Housing and Redevelopment Officials National Lumber and
Building Material Dealers Assn.
Rent Supplement Funds Denied
Under a renewed assault on rent supplements by Republicans and dissident Democrats, operating funds to get the program
underway during fiscal 1966 were denied during consideration of a supplemental appropriations bill (HR 11588 — PL 89-309)
approved on the eve of adjournment. (See p. 182)
Objections to funding the program were based on a contention that draft regulations prepared by the Federal Housing
Administration (FHA) overstepped the bounds of the original provision by increasing income limits for eligibility.
The appropriation for the program first came under fire in the House Oct. 14, when James Harvey (R Mich.) contended that the
regulations would perm it families with assets of as much as $25,000 to be eligible for subsidized housing. Supporters of the
program vigorously disputed Harvey's calculations, but were unprepared for a statistical rebuttal. The House subsequently, by a
185–162 roll-call vote, approved a Harvey amendment to delete the $6 million in contractual authority for supplements and
$180,000 in supplement payments approved by the Appropriations Committee. (The authorization level for fiscal 1966 was $30
million in contractual authority and $900,000 in payments.)
Following the House defeat on supplements, Housing Administrator Robert C. Weaver said the maximum amount of permissible
assets that could be calculated under the regulations was in the range of $15,000 to $16,000, and this only in the case of large
or elderly families in high-cost areas of the nation. In any event, Weaver said, the regulations would be rewritten and lower asset
limitations would be formulated.
Although the Senate later restored $12 million in contractual authority for supplements and $360,000 for supplement payments,
House-Senate conferees on the measure dropped the entire provision. Conferees, in their report (H Rept 1198), said their action
would provide more time “to develop sound plans and criteria which can be reviewed when funds are sought early in 1966.”
LBJ, GOP on Rent Supplements
President Johnson Oct. 23, in a message accompanying the annual HHFA report to Congress, said he would resubmit his
request for rent supplement funds and contractual authority in 1966. Mr. Johnson criticized “the old voices of doubt and
misunderstanding” which he said were responsible for preventing the appropriation of funds in 1965.
House Republican Leader Gerald R. Ford (Mich.) Oct. 25 said that when Mr. Johnson “charged that false allegations defeated his
rent subsidy program, he pointed his finger of accusation at one of his own- the federal housing agency.” Ford said the HHFA
issued regulations which “ripped away the false label of so-called low-income housing” placed on the program. The House GOP
leader added that the rent supplement proposal would be “the major 1966 issue” and that “Republicans welcome the opportunity
to debate this issue in every precinct of the nation.”
Document Citation
"Major Housing Legislation Enacted." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal65-1259306. Originally published in CQ
Almanac 1965 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1966). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal65-1259306 (accessed February 4,
2010).
Document ID: cqal65-1259306
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal65-1259306
© 1966, 2010, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
