7/2/09 12:32 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal66-1300360&type=hitlist&num=2
Banking
1998 Congress Clears Legislation
Allowing Credit Unions To Expand
Membership
1995 House Shelves Banking Overhaul
1994 Other Banking Legislation
Considered in 1994
1994 Community Development Banking
Provisions
1994 Banking Law Undergoes Revision
1991 Congress Clears Slimmed-Down
Banking Bill
1991 Banking Nominations
1988 Caught in Turf Battle, Bank
Powers Bill Dies
1986 Major Banking Legislation Stalls
in Last Hours
1985 Banking Bills Fail to Reach House
Floor
1979 Banking Deregulation
1978 Electronic Banking Services
1978 Banking Regulation
1976 Banking Changes Blocked
1975 Senate Approves Broader Banking
Powers
1974 Citicorp Notes
1974 Banking Insurance, Credit Bill
Cleared
1970 Regulation Extended to One-
Bank Holding Companies
1969 Bank Holding Companies
1967 Truth-In-Lending Bill Passed by
Senate
1966 Bank Supervision
1966 Bank Holding Company Act
Exemptions Changed
1965 Bank Investigation
1957 Banking Revision
1955 Bank Companies
Antitrust
Federal Reserve
Savings and Loan Industry
Stock Market and Financial Services
HR 7371 – Reported by House Banking
and Currency Committee (H Rept 534)
June 21, 1965.
HR 7371 – Passed, amended, by voice
vote of the House Sept. 23, 1965. (For roll
call on amendment, see 1965 Almanac p.
1008.)
HR 7371 – Reported, amended, by
Senate Banking and Currency Committee
(S Rept 1179) May 19, 1966.
HR 7371 – Passed by voice vote of the
Senate June 7, 1966. (For roll-call votes
on amendments, see chart p. 951.)
HR 7371 – Senate amendments agreed to
Bank Holding Company Act Exemptions
Changed
An article from CQ Almanac 1966
Document Outline
Financial Stakes
Group Positions
Background
Senate
Final Action
Congress in 1966 passed a bill (HR 7371) which removed several major 
exemptions  from the Bank Holding Company Act  of 1956. The 1956
law had forbidden companies which owned two or more banks from
simultaneously owning nonbanking business, but had contained a large
number of exemptions . Exempt groups could own as many banks as
they wished and at the same time as main nonbanking businesses as they
wished. The House in passing HR 7371 in 1965 eliminated virtually all the 
exemptions . But the Senate in 1966 restored many of the exemptions
and the Senate's version prevailed and was enacted into law.
The final version of the bill eliminated previously existing exemptions  for
certain long-term investment trusts; certain registered investment companies;
companies whose assets were primarily agricultural; and nonprofit religious,
charitable and educational groups. These groups would be required within a
specified time to divest themselves of either their banking interests or their
nonbanking businesses.
The final version lett in effect the existing exemption for tax-exempt labor,
agricultural and horticultural organizations. The House had sought to end this
exemption, but the Senate restored it. Moreover, the final bill made no
change in the basic language of the 1956 law which required that a 
company  had to own at least two or more banks in order to be subject to
the prohibition against simultaneously owning nonbanking businesses. The
House had changed the basic language so that the law would cover groups
owning one or more banks. This change, potentially the most farreaching in
the entire bill, would have extended the prohibitions of the law to possibly 500
or more companies which held only one bank but which also owned
nonbanking assets. The Senate, however, eliminated this proposed change.
Because of the Senate's
restoration of exemptions
, only two major financial
groupings were immediately
affected by the final bill. They
were the Alfred I. duPont
trust of Florida and the Financial General Corp., a large investment 
company . The DuPont trust, which controlled 31 banks with
deposits totalling over $600 million, as well as many nonbanking
businesses including the Florida East Coast Railroad, had
previously qualified for an exemption as a long-term trust. HR 7371,
as signed into law, ended this exemption and required the DuPont
trust to divest itself of either its banking or nonbanking interests
within five years.
Financial General, which controlled or owned large portions of 26
banks in addition to its nonbanking holdings, had previously
qualified for exemption as a registered investment company .
Under HR 7371, as enacted, registered investment companies were
 
7/2/09 12:32 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal66-1300360&type=hitlist&num=2
HR 7371 – Senate amendments agreed to
by voice vote of the House June 21,
1966.
PL 89-485 – Signed into law July 1, 1966.
Under HR 7371, as enacted, registered investment companies were
no longer exempt, and Financial General would have to divest itself
of either its banking or nonbank holdings by Dec. 31, 1978.
In a related development, the House Oct. 7 passed a bill (HR
11257) to soften the tax impact of the divestitures required by HR
7371. The bill did not pass the Senate before Congress adjourned.
HR 11257 had as its precedent a similar tax break granted in 1962,
after E.I. duPont de Nemours & Co. was forced to divest itself of
General Motors stock. (1962 Almanac p. 537)
Financial Stakes
The stakes in the dispute over HR 7371 were high, running into the billions of dollars. Some exemptions  in the
1956 Act  applied in practice to only a few small groups. But others were, either already or potentially, of very
wide scope. The following information, supplied by the Federal Reserve Board, indicates the number of 
exemptions  in each group:
Long-Term Investment Trusts. The FRB said the exemption for long-term investment trusts, which was repealed
in the final version of HR 7371, covered only a handful of existing trusts, most of which were not making use of it.
The DuPont trust was the only large financial grouping which lost its exemption as a result of this provision of HR
7371.
Registered Investment Companies. The existing exemption for registered investment companies (companies
which had registered before May 15, 1955, under the 1940 Investment Trust Act ) was repealed by HR 7371.
The FRB said the Financial General Corp. was the only company  that would lose its exemption as a result of
this change in the law, since it was the only company  actually making use of the exemption. It said, however,
that about 300 additional companies were potentially eligible for this exemption, and some had been planning to
make use of it before it was repealed by HR 7371.
Religious, Charitable, Educational. The FRB said only a handful of groups were eligible for the exemption for
nonprofit religious, charitable and educational organizations and most of them were not actually using it. Repeal of
this exemption by HR 7371 therefore did not affect many groups.
Primarily Agricultural. Repeal of the exemption for groups whose assets were primarily (at least 80 percent)
agricultural had no practical effect, since no company  was using it. The exemption had previously been put into
the law for the benefit of one company  alone–Consolidated Naval Stores of Jacksonville–which was no longer
affected by it.
Labor, Agricultural, Horticultural. The final version of HR 7371 left in effect the existing exemption for tax-exempt
labor, agricultural and horticultural organizations. The FRB said only three such organizations were currently using
the exemption, as far as it knew: the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America (AFL-CIO), which controlled the
Amalgamated Trust and Savings Bank of Chicago and the Amalgamated Bank of New York; the United Mine
Workers of America (Ind.), which controlled the National Bank of Washington (D.C.); and the International
Brotherhood of Boilermakers, Iron Shipbuilders, Blacksmiths, Forgers and Helpers (AFL-CIO), which controlled the
Brotherhood Bank of Kansas City, Kan. (The UMW and the Boilermakers would still have been exempt under the
“one-bank” rule even if the labor union exemption had been repealed, since they controlled only one bank each.)
“One-Bank” Exemption. The basic rule that the 1956 Act  applied only to companies owning two or more
banks, not to those holding  only one bank in addition to their non-banking holdings, was not changed by the
final version of HR 7371. Had it been, the consequences would have been farreaching. The FRB estimated that over
500 companies with billions of dollars in assets were currently permitted to hold both banking and nonbanking
businesses because their bank holdings consisted of only one bank and they therefore were exempt from the 1956 
Act . These included the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co., Macy's Department Store in New York, the C.I.T.
Financial Corp. and the Trust Co. of Georgia (holdings in Coca Cola), among others.
Group Positions
The Johnson Administration as such took no position on the bill or on repeal of the “one-bank” exemption. The main
supporter of the bill as a whole and of the provision repealing the “one-bank” exemption was the Federal Reserve
Board. The FRB's position was set forth at Senate Banking and Currency Financial Institutions Subcommittee
hearings. At the same hearings, Comptroller of the Currency James J. Saxon and the American Bankers Assn.
vigorously denounced the provision repealing the “one-bank” exemption. Several sources told CQ that the strongest
opposition to repeal of the “one-bank” exemption came from banks and companies that would have been directly
affected by repeal. Capitol Hill sources said that had the provision not been dropped in the Senate, the whole bill
probably would have failed to pass because of industry opposition to repeal of the “one-bank” exemption.
Financial General fought to retain its exemption, but a spokesman for the DuPont trust took a milder position,
arguing only that if its exemption were to be ended, all exemptions  should be.
PROVISIONS – As signed into law, HR 7371 amended the Bank Holding Company Act  of 1956 as follows:
7/2/09 12:32 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal66-1300360&type=hitlist&num=2
Repealed exemptions  from provisions of the Act  for: trusts which did not terminate within 25 years or
within 21 years and 10 months of the death of beneficiaries; companies registered under the Investment Company
Act  of 1940 before May 15, 1955; companies with at least 80 percent of their total assets in the field of
agriculture; and nonprofit religious, charitable or educational organizations, foundations or funds.
Redefined “bank” as an institution which accepted deposits payable on demand (checking accounts), so as to
include commercial banks and to exclude institutions such as industrial banks and nondeposit trust companies.
Exempted so-called agreement corporations which performed banking operations outside the United States under
agreements with the Federal Reserve Board pursuant to Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act .
Provided that a bank holding company  was deemed to control indirectly any shares owned or controlled by its
subsidiaries or held in trust for its benefit or for the benefit of its shareholders, members or employees.
Required the Board, in acting on applications for the formation or expansion of bank holding company  systems,
to take into account the same antimonopoly factors specified in the Bank Merger Act  (PL 89-356) for bank
mergers.
Required companies previously exempted as registered under the Investment Company Act  of 1940 to divest
themselves of nonbanking interests by Dec. 31, 1978, and other entities previously exempted to divest themselves
within five years and to make progress reports to the Board after two years and annually thereafter.
Repealed Section 6 of the Act , which prohibited any subsidiary bank from lending to or investing in its parent or
a fellow subsidiary.
Changed from 60 to 30 days the period of time in which a party aggrieved by an order of the Board could seek
review in a circuit court of appeals.
Required the Board to notify the Attorney General immediately of its approval pursuant to the Act  of any
acquisition, merger or consolidation; specified that any such transaction could not be consummated before 30 days
after Board approval; required that any antitrust actions brought against such a transaction must be initiated during
that period; provided that at the end of that period or upon termination of such litigation, any such transaction could
not thereafter be attacked as an antitrust violation (except for Section 2 of the Sherman Antitrust Act , which
made monopolizing trade a federal misdemeanor); and provided that such transactions consummated prior to
enactment of HR 7371 was conclusively presumed not to have violated antitrust laws other than Section 2 of the
Sherman Act .
Background
REFERENCES – 1956 Almanac p. 557; 1964 Almanac p. 989; 1965 Almanac p. 856; Congress and the Nation p.
848.
The 1956 Bank Holding Company Act  (PL 84-511) was designed to halt the growth of potential banking
monopolies by preventing the concentration of control over banks in the hands of bank holding  companies and
by prohibiting such companies, with certain exceptions, from managing or controlling both banks and nonbanking
businesses. Under the Act 's provisions, a bank holding company  was defined as any company  owning
25 percent or more of two or more banks. Companies qualifying under this definition and not exempted were
required to register with the Federal Reserve Board (FRB); to divest themselves of nonbank assets; and to obtain
FRB approval before acquiring more than 5 percent of the voting shares of additional banks. The Act  contained
a large number of exemptions , the most significant of which was the “one-bank” rule.
1965 Action. In 1965 Chairman Wright Patman (D Texas) of the House Banking and Currency Committee introduced
two bills (HR 7371, HR 7372) to repeal specific exemptions  to the 1956 Act . HR 7371, in effect, repealed
the exemption for long-term trusts. Its chief practical consequence was to repeal the exemption enjoyed by the
DuPont trust. HR 7372 repealed the exemption for registered investment companies. Its chief practical consequence
was to repeal the exemption for the Financial General Corp.
Action on HR 7371 – HR 7371 was reported from House Banking and Currency June 21, 1965. As reported, it covered
long-term trusts and thus ended the DuPont trust exemption, and also (at the request of the FRB) abolished the existing
exemption for religious, education and charitable groups. The measure was brought to the floor under the 21-day rule
procedure, bypassing the Rules Committee.
HR 7371 was passed Sept. 23, 1965, after a major floor amendment proposed by Charles E. Bennett (D Fla.) was
adopted by a 199–178 roll call.
The substance of the amendment was strongly backed by the FRB. The amendment added provisions to HR 7371
which repealed not only the existing exemptions  for long-term trusts including the DuPont estate and for
religious, educational and charitable institutions, but also the existing “one-bank” exemption, and the exemptions
 for tax-exempt labor, agricultural and horticultural organizations, for registered investment companies including
the Financial General Corp., and for companies whose assets were at least 80 percent agricultural.
7/2/09 12:32 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal66-1300360&type=hitlist&num=2
Action on HR 7372 – HR 7372 was reported July 26, 1965, in a form which repealed the exemption only for registered
investment companies and thus affected only the Financial General Corp. immediately.
However, the measure failed to receive a rule for floor debate from the Rules Committee. The latter's chairman,
Howard W. Smith (D Va.), was also chairman of the Alexandria (Va.) National Bank, which was part of Financial
General's holdings. Efforts to obtain a rule or otherwise bring the bill to the House floor were dropped after the
House Sept. 23, in passing HR 7371, added to the latter a provision which covered registered investment
companies including Financial General, and thus made action on HR 7372 unnecessary.
In 1966, Rules Committee Chairman Smith's opponent in the Virginia 8th District Democratic Congressional primary,
George C. Rawlings Jr., said Smith was involved in a conflict of interest in blocking HR 7372 in the Rules
Committee. Smith replied that he had no financial interest in Financial General. (Rawlings won the primary by a
narrow margin in a district which had recently been reshaped to include 140,000 new suburban residents, but lost in
the general election to a Republican.)
Senate
COMMITTEE – Banking and Currency, Financial Institutions Subcommittee.
HELD HEARINGS – March 16–May 4, 1966, on HR 7371, S 2353 and S 2418. S 2353 introduced Aug. 3, 1965, by
Committee Chairman A Willis Robertson (D Va.), and S 2418, introduced Aug. 16, 1965, by Sen. Wayne Morse (D
Ore.), were similar to HR 7371 but differed in the extent to which they expanded the Act 's coverage.
TESTIMONY – March 16–FRB Chairman William McChesney Martin Jr. testified in support of HR 7371, which he
said contained FRB recommendations “for extending coverage under the Act  in seven respects.” Concerning
the proposed change to a “one-bank definition” of a bank holding company , Martin said, “For every holding
company  now registered under the Act , there are 10 or more that are exempt, chiefly because the Act
does not cover one-bank holding  companies. The Board sees no basis in logic or equity for this exemption,
and recommends its repeal.” Martin explained that “when a builder seeks a construction loan from a bank, the loan
should be made or denied without regard to whether the applicant will buy his lumber from a supplier that is owned
by the same holding company  that owns the bank.” Martin also said that while the Board could not cite specific
examples of abuse by one-bank holding  companies, a “sufficiently great…potentiality for abuse” did exist.
Florida Views
Rep. Bennett also testified in support of HR 7371, stating that the Florida DuPont estate was violating the underlying
principles of the 1956 Act . Bennett said that, though he would support the bill if it simply repealed the
exemption for the DuPont estate, “I believe that few in the Florida delegation would join me in that; and without that
local support, usual procedures in the Congress would kill the bill automatically and immediately.” (On Bennett's
1965 amendment broadening coverage of the Act  beyond just the DuPont estate, the entire 12-member Florida
House delegation voted “yea.”)
March 22–Max A. Denney, executive vice president of the American Industrial Bankers Assn., a national trade
association of sales finance and industrial and small loan companies, opposed a “one-bank definition” of a bank 
holding company .
Ralph L. Zaun, president of the Independent Bankers Assn. of America, opposed the change to a “one-bank
definition” but supported repeal of the other “inequitable and illogical” exemptions  from the 1956 Act . Zaun
also supported a provision of S 2353 tightening a loophole in the “Douglas amendment” of the Act . The
amendment, sponsored in 1956 by Sen. Paul H. Douglas (D Ill.), was designed to prevent bank holding
companies from expanding across state lines, unless the states gave them explicit permission to do so.
Douglas testified that the loophole was opened by the decision of a “stupid court” (the 8th Circuit Court of Appeals)
that permitted a bank holding company  in Minnesota to acquire additional banks in South Dakota through one
of its South Dakota subsidiaries.
Saxon Disagrees with Martin
March 23–Comptroller of the Currency James J. Saxon registered a vociferous dissent from the position of the FRB
on the need for a “one-bank definition” and also on a separate proposal that the FRB have authority to approve
mergers of banks which were subsidiaries of bank holding  companies with other banks. Saxon said the “ore-
bank” proposal, which would expand FRB supervision from 53 registered holding  companies to more than 600
one-bank companies, “cannot be justified on imaginary possibilities of abuse” and that the merger proposal would
“obscure and duplicate” the jurisdictional authority of the Comptroller, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and FRB.
Saxon also said that both proposals would represent a “very large extension of (the FRB's) activities in the field of
direct bank supervision and administrative control…at variance with the expressions we hear from time to time from
the Board that such activities should be minimized in favor of the Board's primary function of monetary control.” In
addition, Saxon cautioned against repeal of exemptions  for testamentary trusts, such as the DuPont estate's,
without having knowledge of the broader effect on other family-type trusts.
March 29–Louis Van Damme, chairman of the board of the Belgian-American Bank & Trust Co., which is controlled
7/2/09 12:32 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal66-1300360&type=hitlist&num=2
March 29–Louis Van Damme, chairman of the board of the Belgian-American Bank & Trust Co., which is controlled
by a Belgian bank, Societe Generale de Banque, urged that any new bank holding company  legislation be
amended to grant the Federal Reserve Board authority to exempt from the definition of a bank holding company
 foreign companies that controlled banks in the United States but did not engage in nonbanking businesses. Van
Damme said he thought it would be “inconsistent with the best interests of the United States and its balance-of-
payments programs to discourage foreign investment in this country by subjecting a foreign bank and its foreign
subsidiaries to regulations hampering their (trade-oriented) activities….”
John A. Sibley, honorary board chairman of the Trust Co. of Georgia, a bank holding company , told the
Subcommittee that his firm and its subsidiary, Trust Co. of Georgia Associates, should not be forced to divest
themselves of $41 million worth of Coca-Cola International Corp. holdings. He testified that the total investment of
the two groups in Coca-Cola International represented only 7.7 percent of the shares of that company  and only
1.7 percent of the shares of the parent company , The Coca-Cola Co. Sibley added, “Neither Trust Co. of
Georgia nor Trust Co. of Georgia Associates manages or controls Coca-Cola International Corp. or The Coca-Cola
Co.”
Bankers Assn. President Testifies
March 30–Lewellyn A. Jennings, spokesman for the American Bankers Assn. (ABA), testified that the ABA was
“strongly” opposed to a “one-bank definition” of a bank holding company . He said the proposed change, which
would require the sale of a large number of banks within a limited period of time,” was “entirely too harsh” and was
justified on the grounds of “theoretical conflict-of-interest abuses” which, if real, could be better checked by “careful
scrutiny and strict regulation.” Jennings also noted ABA opposition to certain other provisions of the bills, including
portions repealing exemptions  from the 1956 Act  for labor, agricultural and horticultural organizations and
for partnerships.
In addition, Jennings told the Subcommittee the ABA believed that exemptions  from the 1956 Act  for trusts
“should be allowed for the life interest of the individual beneficiaries living when the trusts become effective….”
Under this proposal, the trust exemption for the large Florida estate of financier Alfred I. duPont would not be
repealed until the death of all living individual beneficiaries.
Dupont Control Debated
March 31–J.A. Maloney, editor of the Apalachi-cola (Fla.) Times, testified that the DuPont estate held a “feudal” grip
on the northwestern region of Florida through its low-taxed pulpwood interests there. He said he thought his area
would “boom” economically if DuPont were required to break up its financial empire.
May 2–Ray M. Gidney, board chairman of the Florida National Bank, Jacksonville, Fla., which was controlled by the
estate of Alfred I. duPont, defended the policy of permitting nonbanking businesses to own banks. “We are pursuing
an unreal and impractical standard when we say divorce banks from business absolutely,” he said. He said there
was “no evidence before this committee or otherwise available” to suggest that the DuPont estate combined its
banking and nonbanking business “in a manner harmful to the estate or to the public.”
Winfred L. Thornton, president of the Florida East Coast Railway Co., which was owned by the DuPont estate, said
the proposed amendments had been urged by railway unions striking Florida East Coast as a “punitive” measure.
Retention of the exemption for the DuPont estate was urged by: William D. Pawley of Miami, Fla.; Wesley R.
Ramsey, editor-publisher of the Port St. Joe Star; Hoke T. Maroon, a Miami banker; Harold Colee, executive vice
president of the Florida State Chamber of Commerce; Leonard Usina, board chairman of the People's First National
Bank, which competed with banks owned by the DuPont estate; and William S. Johnson, former executive vice
president of the Jacksonville Area Chamber of Commerce. All stressed the economic and charitable contributions
made locally by the DuPont estate.
May 3–Sen. Spessard L. Holland (D Fla.) said that “frankly I have never felt that there was justification for singling out
the DuPont trust for what I think is discriminatory treatment” and that it was “highly objectionable from any
standpoint of fairness” to apply different rules to the DuPont estate after the death of the testator.
Dupont Trustee Blames Strikers
Edward Ball, cotrustee of the DuPont estate, said he did not object to striking all exemptions  from the Act ,
but did “object most strenuously to being singled cut with one or two or three other legal entities in the entire United
States and led before the firing squad for public execution.” He said the “dominant fact” behind pressure to eliminate
the DuPont exemption was the union strike against the Florida East Coast Railway and the subsequent union effort
to bring pressure on the railway.
Rep. Robert L.F. Sikes (D Fla.) said he had “serious reservations” about HR 7371, which he said “originated as
legislation designed primarily to penalize a single organization, the Alfred I. duPont estate.” He said he voted for the
House version of the bill as “the lesser of two evils.” He said little was known about the potential impact of the
proposed legislation on other banking interests because there had been “much preoccupation” with the DuPont
situation.
May 4–George Olmsted, board chairman of the Financial General Corp., which owned 72 banks and businesses in
all 50 states and many foreign nations, described Financial General as a “financial department store” in which 26
banks made up its “banking group.” He added that “each of these banks is an autonomous, independent, healthy,
7/2/09 12:32 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal66-1300360&type=hitlist&num=2
banks made up its “banking group.” He added that “each of these banks is an autonomous, independent, healthy,
competently managed and effective institution geared to the needs of the community in which it is located.” He said
existing law was “too restrictive” in that it had “absolute prohibitions” against acquiring banks across state lines and
required divestment and separation of banking and nonbanking assets. He recommended a study of bank holding
company  legislation “so as to promote group banking associations similar to Financial General Corp.”
Bill Reported
The Senate Banking and Currency Committee May 19, 1966, reported HR 7371 (S Rept 1179) with major
amendments.
As reported, HR 7371 retained provisions of the House version which abolished the existing exemptions  for (1)
long-term investment trusts including the Alfred I. duPont estate; (2) registered investment companies including the
Financial General Corp.; (3) companies with primarily agricultural assets; and (4) nonprofit religious, charitable and
educational organizations.
However, the Senate Committee dropped from the bill the House provisions that would have abolished the “one-
bank” exemption and ended the exemption for tax-exempt labor, agricultural and horticultural organizations. The
Senate Committee thus dropped from the bill two of its most far-reaching provisions.
In other, lesser provisions, the Committee gave charitable trusts losing their exemption up to five years to divest
themselves of nonbanking assets, and it gave companies registered under the Investment Company Act  of
1940, which were also losing their exemption, until Dec. 31, 1978, to divest themselves of such assets. Unlike the
House version, the Senate Committee bill made appropriate changes in other laws, namely, the Internal Revenue
Code, the Federal Reserve Act , the Federal Deposit Insurance Act , the Banking Act  of 1933, the
Investment Company Act  of 1940 and the Investment Advisers Act .
Committee Views. The Committee said the “principal entity” currently benefitting from the exemption for long-term
trusts was the Alfred I. duPont trust fund, which controlled 30 banks in Florida together with “sizeable nonbank
businesses.” The Committee saw no basis for “special consideration” of religious, educational and charitable
institutions in the Bank Holding Company Act  any more than in antitrust or interstate commerce laws. The
“only” beneficiary of the investment company  exemption, the Committee said, was Financial General Corp. The
Committee said the exemption was originally granted in the belief that the Investment Company Act  of 1940
afforded adequate supervision in the field, but experience had proven otherwise. In both instances, the Committee
said the difficulties of divestiture should be eased by granting sufficient time to DuPont and Financial General. The
Committee said it rejected the House provision extending the 1956 Act  to single-bank companies because it
found “no substantial evidence of abuses occurring in one-bank holding  companies.”
Floor Action
The Senate June 7 passed HR 7371 by voice vote after rejecting four floor amendments–three of them by roll calls.
(For voting, see chart p. 951.)
As passed, HR 7371 was identical to the version of the bill reported by the Senate Banking and Currency
Committee. The Senate version differed from the House version chiefly in that the Senate version did not repeal the
existing “one-bank” exemption and did not repeal the existing exemption for tax-exempt labor, agricultural and
horticultural organizations.
In debate, A. Willis Robertson (D Va.), chairman of the Senate Banking and Currency Committee, June 6 said the
House version was an “extreme” bill in that it applied the Act  to one-bank holding  companies. The
Committee found no evidence of abuses by such companies, he said, adding that although the FRB proposed the
provision, it affected hundreds of companies in every state and if included “we would never get anywhere.”
Robertson said the DuPont trust was given five years for divestiture because it might experience difficulty in selling
either its banks or its nonbanking assets in less time while still obtaining a fair price. He said the special divestiture
provision for Financial General was based on the fact that Financial General had issued a mortgage using its stock
as collateral, and the mortgage ran until 1978.
Much debate centered on the merits of providing different divestiture deadlines for the DuPont trust and Financial
General, and two amendments were offered to equalize the deadlines. Both were defeated. Another amendment,
offered by Philip A. Hart (D Mich.), would have struck the antitrust provisions, which among other things gave
immunity to acquisitions, mergers and consolidations already accomplished, but that amendment also was defeated.
Amendments Rejected
June 6–Wallace F. Bennett (R Utah)–Give the Alfred I. duPont trust until Dec. 31, 1978, instead of five years from the
date of enactment to divest itself either of its banking or nonbanking assets. Roll-call vote. 31–37.
June 7–Frank J. Lausche (D Ohio)–Give both the DuPont trust and Financial General Corp, seven years in which to
complete divestiture. Roll call, 35–47.
Philip A. Hart (D Mich.)–Delete Section 11 of the bill which established procedures in bank holding company
cases for antitrust actions against new acquisitions, mergers or consolidations and immunized existing acquisitions,
mergers or consolidations. Roll call, 16–64.
7/2/09 12:32 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal66-1300360&type=hitlist&num=2
Russell B. Long (D La.)–Transfer from the Federal Reserve Board to the Comptroller of the Currency the power of
approval or disapproval of direct investments by member banks in foreign banks. Voice.
Final Action
The House June 21 by voice vote agreed to the Senate amendments to HR 7371, clearing the bill for the
President's signature.
In brief debate, Wright Patman (D Texas) said that the House Ways and Means Committee was considering a bill
(HR 11257) which would give the DuPont trust and Financial General income tax treatment similar to that granted 
holding  companies forced to divest themselves of assets under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. (See
p. 762.)
Patman called HR 7371, as amended by the Senate, “the best bill obtainable” and said that it was “entirely
unrealistic” to have expected the Senate to have accepted the House version.
Document Citation
"Bank Holding Company Act Exemptions Changed." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal66-1300360.
Originally published in CQ Almanac 1966 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1967).
http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal66-1300360 (accessed July 2, 2009).
Document ID: cqal66-1300360
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal66-1300360
© 1967, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
