2/8/10 2:16 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 4file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-24…st%20Equalization%20Tax%20Extension%20Act%20of%201965.webarchive
Document Outline
Provisions
Background
House
Senate
Conference
HR 4750 – Reported, amended, by the
House Ways and Means Committee (H
Rept 602) July?, 1965.
Passed by the House by a 274–97 roll-
call vote Aug. 5. (See p. 988)
Reported, amended, by the Senate
Finance Committee (S Rept 621) Aug.
17.
Passed amended, by voice vote of the
Senate Aug. 24.
Conference report (H Rept 988)
agreed to by voice votes of the House
Sept. 16 and the Senate Sept. 20.
PL 89 - 243  – Signed into law Oct.
9.
Interest Equalization Tax Extended for 19 Months
An article from CQ Almanac 1965
Congress in 1965 passed an amended Administration bill (HR 4750) extending
for 19 months, through July 31, 1967, the tax on the purchase by Americans of
certain foreign securities.
The Interest Equalization Tax (IET), as the levy was known, was scheduled to
expire Dec. 31, 1965. Its purpose was to stem the outflow of investment funds
from the United States by making it equally as expensive for foreign borrowers to
obtain capital in U.S. financial markets as it was to obtain capital from other
industrial nations. President Johnson in his Feb. 10 Balance-of-Payments
Message called for extension of the tax as an important part of the
Administration's program to reduce the persistent U.S. balance-of-payments
deficit. (For story on the President's over-all program, see p. 865)
In a related action, the President Feb. 10 issued an Executive Order extending
the IET to cover U.S. bank loans made abroad with maturities of 1 to 3 years.
(Standby authority to apply the levy to such loans had been added to the 1964
Act in an amendment sponsored by Sen. Albert Gore (D Tenn.) and welcomed by
the Administration.) The President said this action was necessary because
overseas bank loans of more than one year's maturity had increased by nearly
$1 billion in 1964 and threatened “materially to impair the effectiveness” of the
IET. Treasury officials Feb. 10 said that a “sizable portion” of the loans “appears
to have substituted, directly or indirectly, for other forms of borrowing subject to
the Interest Equalization Tax.”
The only major amendment to the 1964 Act provided by HR 4750 made the tax
applicable to bonds with a maturity period of 1 to 3 years. The original Act taxed
only purchases of bonds of more than three years maturity. This extension of the levy was believed necessary to conform to the
bank loan coverage invoked by the President under his Executive Order. Government officials said the proposal would prevent
certain types of lenders from moving into the 1 to 3-year maturity field.
In its other provisions, HR 4750 authorized minor exemptions from the tax designed to meet problems that had arisen since it was
instituted. No change was made in the existing tax rates – 15 percent of the purchase price on new and existing stock issued
and 1.05 to 15 percent on bonds and notes, depending upon maturity period. In a second Executive action regarding the tax,
President Johnson in his Feb. 10 Balance-of-Payments Message announced that all new securities issued or guaranteed by the
Japanese Government would be exempted up to a total of $100 million annually.
Provisions
As signed into law, HR 4750, The Interest Equalization Tax Extension Act of 1965, contained the following major provisions:
Extended the Interest Equalization Tax for IP months from Dec. 31, 1965, through July 31, 1967.
Broadened the scope of the tax to cover the purchase of foreign bonds with a maturity period of 1 to 3 years. Provided, with
minor exceptions, that the tax on bonds in this category would apply retroactively to issues purchased after Feb. 10, 1965 (the
date President Johnson requested the legislation).
Provided numerous new exemptions from the tax for various types of transactions.
Required that all international agreements under which foreign currencies are generated for the use of the United States must in
2/8/10 2:16 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 4file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-24…st%20Equalization%20Tax%20Extension%20Act%20of%201965.webarchive
Required that all international agreements under which foreign currencies are generated for the use of the United States must in
the future contain provisions ensuring that such currencies may be used to pay U.S. debts in that country, or, if not needed to
discharge debt obligations, may be converted into dollars or other foreign currencies in amounts determined by the Secretary of
the Treasury to be necessary for U.S. requirements. Exempted from this provision agreements negotiated under Title I of the
Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954 (PL 480). Stipulated that the provision would terminate upon
expiration of the Interest Equalization Tax.
Background
REFERENCE – 1964 Almanac p. 545.
The Interest Equalization Tax was enacted by Congress in 1964 (PL 88-563) as a temporary measure to reduce a heavy and
continued outflow of dollars resulting from borrowing and stock issues of foreign governments and businesses in U.S. money
markets.
Basically, the tax was designed to increase the cost of foreign borrowing in this manner: Americans would pay a tax (at rates
provided in the bill) when they acquired a foreign security (primarily stocks or bonds). It was expected that the American
purchasers would pass on the extra cost of the tax to the foreigner either through charging a higher interest rate on a loan or by
demanding a discount on the purchase of the stock.
The tax rates provided by the 1964 Act were designed to increase the cost of borrowing in the U.S. by about 1 percent. With that
increase, the cost of obtaining capital in the U.S. was expected to be at a level comparable with European markets. In order to
prevent a large outflow of dollars before the measure became law, it was made retroactive to the July 1963 date on which it was
proposed by President Kennedy.
House
COMMITTEE – Ways and Means.
ACTION – July 7 reported an amended version of HR 4750 (H Rept 602). The committee changes extended the tax to July 31,
1967 (19 months), rather than the Administration-proposed date of Dec. 31, 1967 (two years), and provided numerous new
exemptions from the tax for various types of transactions.
Majority Views. The report said that the Interest Equalization Tax had “substantially reduced the payments deficit” in the short
time that it had been in force. After announcement of the tax in mid-year 1963, the report said, the annual rate of the payments
deficit declined from $4.9 billion to $1.7 billion. In the three quarters following July 1963, it said sales of new foreign issues fell to
“half the volume of sales made during the three quarters preceding announcement of the tax. Although the 1964 payments deficit
was one of the lower deficits since 1957, the report said, the figure would have been “substantially less…were it not for a large
outflow of bank loans in the last quarter of the year.”
Continuation of the tax, the report asserted, provided a balance-of-payments solution that was “within the framework of a
domestic economy operating at or near (its) full potential with price stability.” Alternative solutions, such as the deflation of the
domestic economy through higher interest rates “at a time when the objective is to achieve further reductions in unemployment,”
would be undesirable, it said.
A 19-month rather than 24-month extension had been selected, the report indicated, to allow the tax “to lapse relatively soon if
conditions permit.” The report emphasized that the tax was directed only at the “immediate problem of a balance-of-payments
deficit….”
The report said the broadening of the tax to include foreign bonds with a maturity of 1 to 3 years was necessary because of a
substantial 1964 increase in types of capital outflows not covered by the tax….” If bonds were not added to the tax's coverage,
the report indicated, “widespread avoidance” would result through the issuance of bonds as a substitute for bank loans, which
would continue to be covered under the President's standby authority.
Separate Views. A statement of separate views was filed by four of the eight Republicans on the Committee –Thomas B. Curtis
(Mo.), James B. Utt (Calif.), Jackson E. Betts (Ohio) and Joel T. Broyhill (Va.). The statement charged that the Administration had
ignored long-run “damaging effects” which its capital restraints program would have on the U.S. and world economies.
“Continued reliance on palliatives and measures which would buy time,” the statement said, permitted the Administration to “avoid
making the hard choices that are needed to restore fundamental equilibrium to the U.S. balance-of-payments.” The basic efforts
needed to eliminate the deficit, the statement said, included a reassessment of U.S. military expenditures abroad, avoidance of
domestic inflation, development of “a more realistic” domestic structure of interest rates and moderation of the rate of increase in
money and credit at home.
Floor Action
The House Aug. 5 passed HR 4750 by a 274–97 roll-call vote and sent the measure to the Senate. (For voting, see chart p. 988)
Prior to passage, the House by voice votes adopted the committee amendments and rejected a motion by Thomas B. Curtis (R
Mo.) to recommit (kill) the bill.
During floor debate, supporters of the measure noted that the outflow of U.S. private capital on the purchase of foreign securities
had “dwindled to a trickle” on issues where the tax had been imposed. Continuation of the levy, proponents asserted, was
2/8/10 2:16 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 4file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-24…st%20Equalization%20Tax%20Extension%20Act%20of%201965.webarchive
had “dwindled to a trickle” on issues where the tax had been imposed. Continuation of the levy, proponents asserted, was
“crucial” to the success of the rest of the President's balance-of-payments program. The bill's sponsor, Ways and Means
Committee Chairman Wilbur D. Mills (D Ark.), said that “unless capital outflows are restricted, efforts to limit the foreign exchange
costs of U.S. foreign overseas operations, increase our trade surplus, and reduce the net drain of tourist expenditures will be
futile.” Mills added that the tax was “clearly preferable” to the alternative solution of increasing long-term domestic interest rates,
which he said raised possibilities of a cutback in domestic investment with collateral effects on economic progress and
unemployment.
Opponents of HR 4750 argued that the tax was the wrong method of attacking the payments deficit. Joel T. Broyhill (R Va.) said
the deficit was created by “huge Government expenditures all over the world,” rather than by private capital outflow. He said the
tax was a deterrent to private investment abroad which generated U.S. exports and eased the payments problem.
Senate
The Senate Finance Committee Aug. 17 reported HR 4750 (S Rept 621) after making a series of amendments. The major
change adopted by the Committee restored the Dec. 31, 1967, expiration date requested by the Administration. Other committee
amendments were largely of a technical and clarifying nature.
Floor Action
The Senate Aug. 24 passed an amended version of HR 4750 by voice vote and sent it to conference with the House. Prior to
passage, the Senate by voice vote accepted five floor amendments to HR 4750, including one by Jacob K. Javits (R N.Y.) to
delete the Dec. 31, 1967, expiration date provided by the Senate committee bill and restore the July 31, 1967, expiration date
provided in the version of the measure passed by the House. Approval of the Javits amendment removed the only major variation
between the House and Senate bills.
In a brief Senate debate on the measure, Russell B. Long (D La.), floor manager of HR 4750, asserted that the tax had
“contributed greatly” to recent reductions in the U.S. balance-of-payments deficit by sharply curtailing U.S. capital outflows.
Continued success in U.S. efforts to “hold the ground we have gained,” Long added, “depends on the extension of the tax” until
administrative measures launched in February 1965 had a chance to work. Hiram L. Fong (R Hawaii), one of the few opponents of
the bill, argued that the tax was an “ill-conceived” and “impractical” measure which “impeded our traditionally free capital market
and damaged America's position as financial center of the world.” Fong also contended that the tax had not improved the U.S.
payments position measurably “because it has not been addressed to the chief causes of the…deficit – exempting the major
areas of capital outflow, and taxing only a relatively insignificant total of transactions.”
Amendments Accepted
Aug. 24 – Thomas H. Kuchel (R Calif.) (on behalf of George Murphy (R Calif.) – Make certain exclusions from the tax for debt
obligations acquired from export sales applicable to obligations acquired through export lease transactions. Voice vote.
Jacob K. Javits (R N.Y.) – Allow subsidiaries of commercial banks the same exemptions as provided the banks themselves on
foreign debt obligations acquired through lease transactions. (The purpose of the amendment was to broaden the range of
financial institutions which could support operations to lease U.S.-made aircraft to foreign airlines.) Voice.
Javits – As modified by John J. Williams (R Del.) – Provide for expiration of the tax on July 31, 1967, rather than on Dec. 31,
1967. (Javits’ amendment authorized the President at his discretion to suspend and, if necessary, reinstate the tax before the
Dec. 31,1967, expiration date.) Voice.
Thomas J. Dodd (D Conn.) – Add language to make clear that foreign insurance operations by small mutual casualty insurance
companies were exempted from the tax. Voice.
Frank J. Lausche (D Ohio) – Provide exemptions for newspaper publishers who acquired foreign stocks or debt obligations with
funds derived from newspaper advertisements contracted by firms incorporated under laws of the same nation in which the stock
or debt obligation was issued. (The amendment was designed to aid U.S. publishers who contracted with Canadian advertisers.)
Voice.
Conference
The conference report on HR 4750 (H Rept 988) was filed Sept. 14. Of 32 Senate amendments to the House bill – all of them
minor and technical – conferees accepted all but one. The exception was a provision which granted exemptions for newspaper
publishers who acquired foreign stocks or debt obligations with funds derived from newspaper advertising contracted by firms
incorporated under laws of the same nation in which the stock or debt obligation was issued.
Report Adopted
The House Sept. 16 and the Senate Sept. 20 adopted the conference report on HR 4750 by voice votes and with little debate.
President Johnson signed the bill into law Oct. 9 (PL 89 - 243).
Country Exemptions Revoked
RELATED DEVELOPMENTS – May 14 – President Johnson issued an Executive Order terminating the designation of the
2/8/10 2:16 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 4file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL89-24…st%20Equalization%20Tax%20Extension%20Act%20of%201965.webarchive
RELATED DEVELOPMENTS – May 14 – President Johnson issued an Executive Order terminating the designation of the
Bahamas, Bermuda, Ireland, Kuwait and Portugal as “less developed countries” for purposes of the Interest Equalization Tax.
The President's action had the effect of applying the tax to purchases by U.S. citizens of all previously exempted issues
originating from those areas. The issues had been exempted by Executive action authorized under the 1964 Interest Equalization
Tax Act.
Dec. 6 – The Cabinet Committee on Balance-of-Payments recommended that the Interest Equalization Tax be extended to
previously exempted securities issued by nine other countries: Abu Dhabi, Bahrain, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait-Saudi Arabia
Neutral Zone, Libya, Qatar and Saudi Arabia. By year's end the President had not yet implemented the recommendations.
Document Citation
"Interest Equalization Tax Extended for 19 Months." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal65-1258046. Originally
published in CQ Almanac 1965 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1966). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal65-1258046 (accessed
February 4, 2010).
Document ID: cqal65-1258046
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal65-1258046
© 1966, 2010, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
