2/8/10 1:22 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 6http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/docu…tion=print&time=1265653285711&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
Document Outline
Provisions
Background
House
Senate
Conference
Interest Equalization Tax Extended for Two Years
An article from CQ Almanac 1967
Congress July 31 cleared an Administration-backed bill (HR 6098) extending the Interest Equalization Tax (IET) for two more
years and giving the President the authority to eliminate the tax or to set it at any level up to 50 percent above the current
amount of the levy. Congress completed action and the President signed the bill only hours before the tax was to expire.
The Interest Equalization Tax Extension Act of 1967 (PL 90 - 59 ) continued a tax – first imposed in 1963 and extended by
Congress in 1965 – to help relieve the chronic U.S. balance-of-payrnents deficit by making it more expensive for foreigners to
borrow from U.S. sources.
HR 6098 extended the tax from July 31, 1967, through July 31, 1969. It continued the existing tax rates which, in effect, provided
the equivalent of an annual 1-percent increase in interest costs for foreign borrowers obtaining capital by selling securities to U.S.
creditors. (These were a flat 15-percent tax on stocks and a variable levy on bonds according to their maturities.) In addition, the
bill gave the President discretionary authority to drop the IET altogether or to establish it at any level up to an interest equivalent
of 1.5 percent. This flexibility ensured that the President would be able to adjust the tax, as domestic or foreign interest rates
fluctuated, so that it would cost foreigners as much to borrow from U.S. creditors as from foreign creditors.
However, fearing that U.S. creditors would quickly purchase large amounts of foreign securities in anticipation of an increase in
the IET, Congress adopted an Administration-proposed provision making an effective rate of 1.5 percent mandatory over the
period from Jan. 26, 1967, the day the President proposed the bill, until 30 days after enactment. Unless the President ordered
the 1.5-percent rate retained or established some other rate, the charge at the end of the 30-day period automatically would
revert to the 1-percent rate of existing law. on Aug. 28, President Johnson signed an Executive Order reducing the effective rate
of the IET from 1.5 percent to 1.25 percent. In addition to reducing the variable levy on bonds, the new rate, which went into
effect Aug. 30, resulted in setting the flat tax on purchase of foreign stocks at 18.75 percent. (Under the 1.5-percent IET, the tax
on stock purchases had been 22.5 percent.)
The bill also included language eliminating an alleged loophole in the law which the Treasury said allowed stock market
“operators” to evade payment of the tax. Utilizing an existing exemption from the levy for foreign securities transactions between
Americans, the Treasury said, the operators had purchased the securities at lower costs in foreign markets and then sold them at
higher prices tax-free in U.S. markets by attaching fraudulent certificates of U.S. ownership. The new bill contained strict rules
which allowed tax-free sales only when American sellers had obtained validation from either the Internal Revenue Service or an
authorized securities dealer that the tax had been paid or that the security otherwise was exempt from payment.
(At the outset, the private dealers authorized to validate the securities were to include any member of the New York or American
Stock Exchanges, large banks in major cities, and the larger member dealers affiliated with the National Assn. of Securities
Dealers. (For details, see provisions, below.) Eventually, however, the procedure was to be tightened to limit participation to those
institutions which agreed to comply with Treasury bookkeeping, auditing, reporting and other requirements issued to implement
the provision.)
President Johnson, in requesting the bill Jan. 26, had asked for the two-year extension of the tax together with discretionary
authority to vary the levy between the equivalent interest rates of zero and 2 percent. Both the House and the Senate provided
the full two-year extension, but the House restricted the President's flexible rate-making authority to a range of only 1.0 to 1.5
percent. House and Senate conferees in agreeing on a final version of the bill accepted the House ceiling of 1.5 percent together
with the Senate and Administration-proposed floor of zero.
In debate on the bill, Republicans in both chambers criticized the Administration for continuing to seek mere “palliatives” (as they
called the IET) to solve the balance-of-payments problem and contended that the President should begin to seek a permanent
solution. Some Republicans charged that the “real problem” was “excessive Government spending abroad” such as the foreign
aid program.
Provisions
2/8/10 1:22 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 6http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/docu…tion=print&time=1265653285711&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
As signed into law (PL 90 - 59 ) July 31, HR 6098, the Interest Equalization Tax Extension Act of 1967:
Extension of Tax. Extended the Interest Equalization Tax for two years, from July 31, 1967, through July 31, 1969.
Continued the existing tax, which in effect provided the equivalent of a 1-percent increase in interest costs for foreign borrowers
obtaining capital from U.S. sources either from the sale of stocks or from the sale of bonds or other debt obligations with
maturities of one year or more.
Provided discretionary authority for the President to eliminate the tax altogether or to set it at any level up to the equivalent of an
interest charge of 1.5 percent.
Provided that during the period from Jan. 26, 1967, the day the President made his request to Congress, until 30 days after
enactment of HR 6098, a tax equivalent to a 1.5-percent interest cost was to be in effect to forestall large purchases of foreign
stocks and debt obligations in anticipation of an increase in the tax rate by Presidential order.
Anti-Evasion Provision. Authorized the continuation of tax-free sale of foreign securities from one American or American firm to
another only when the seller obtained validation that the tax had been paid on the securities or that the securities were exempt
from the tax. (Existing law required the sellers only to prove American ownership of the securities – a condition which presumed
but did not ensure that the tax had been paid or that the securities were exempt.)
Stipulated that the validation requirement could be satisfied by the seller's receiving either a “validation certificate” issued by the
Internal Revenue Service or an “IET clean confirmation” issued by an authorized private institution.
Stipulated that, during a transitional period extending from July 15 to Aug. 14, 1967, the institutions authorized to issue the “clean
confirmations” were to include all members and member firms of the New York and American Stock Exchanges; large member
firms of the National Assn. of Securities Dealers (those whose net worth was over $750,000 or who engaged in 300 or more
transactions in foreign securities during the week of either July 2 or July 9, 1967); and all Federal Reserve Banks classified as
“reserve city banks” (generally large banks in major cities).
Provided that after the transitional period ended, the firms initially participating could continue to issue the confirmations only if
they filed statements with the Treasury that they would comply with documentation, bookkeeping, reporting and auditing
requirements issued by the Treasury to implement the provision. Also stipulated that during this permanent phase, members of
any other national securities exchange or association (so long as the national grouping was registered with the Securities and
Exchange Commission) could become participants if they agreed to comply with the Treasury requirements.
Exemptions. Provided an exemption from the tax for foreign mortgage notes and other debt obligations acquired by Americans in
connection with the sale of real property located outside the United States which they held prior to initiation of the tax in July
1963. Specifically provided that the exemption was to include obligations received with respect to the sale of real property by: (1)
the estates or trusts of deceased Americans when the property was acquired by the deceased person prior to the 1963
imposition of the tax and was held continuously by him until his death; and (2) trusts set up by living Americans when the person
establishing the trust had acquired the property prior to imposition of the tax and subsequently had put it into trust.
Exempted foreign stock or debt obligations acquired by a foreigner during the first 90 days of his residency in the United States.
Provided, however, that securities purchased under the exemption would be subject to the tax if subsequently sold to Americans.
Made several other minor exemptions and modifications in the existing provisions of the tax.
Background
REFERENCES – 1965 Almanac p. 870; 1964 Almanac p. 545.
The Interest Equalization Tax was enacted by Congress in 1964 (PL 88-563) as a temporary measure to reduce a heavy and
continued outflow of dollars resulting from borrowing and stock issues of foreign governments and businesses in U.S. money
markets. In order to prevent a large outflow of dollars during the period the measure was moving through the Congress, the law
was made retroactive to the July 1963 date on which it was proposed by President Kennedy, and it remained in effect through
Dec. 31, 1965.
The tax worked this way: Americans would pay the tax, at rates provided in the bill, when they acquired a foreign security
(primarily stocks or bonds). The Americans then would pass on the extra cost of the tax to the foreign borrower, either through
charging a higher interest rate on a loan or by demanding a discount on the purchase of the stock. With that increase, the cost of
obtaining capital in the United States was expected to be at a level comparable with European markets.
For example, an American buying $100 worth of foreign stock would have to pay the Government a flat 15 percent, or $15, in tax.
He presumably would insist that the foreign seller reduce the price of the stock to $85. If the American were buying debt
obligations (primarily bonds), the tax would range from 1.05 percent on obligations of 1-year maturity to 15 percent on those of
28-1/2 years or longer maturity. The seller would be expected to increase the interest he would pay on the loan to compensate
for the tax the American would pay.
Final 1963 balance-of-payments figures indicated that the tax did hold down long-term foreign borrowing in U.S. money markets.
Sales of new foreign securities to U.S. residents fell from a total of $999 million in the first half of 1963 to $251 million in the
second half of that year.
An exemption from the tax, provided in the law for commercial bank loans, proved to be a serious loophole. Lending abroad by
2/8/10 1:22 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 6http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/docu…tion=print&time=1265653285711&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
An exemption from the tax, provided in the law for commercial bank loans, proved to be a serious loophole. Lending abroad by
U.S. banks increased substantially during 1964. President Johnson Feb. 10, 1965, issued an Executive Order extending the tax
to cover U.S. bank loans made to foreigners (with maturities of 1 to 3 years) under standby authority given him in the original law
if he decided the exemption were being abused.
(On Feb. 20, 1967, the President modified his Feb. 10, 1965, order to put U.S. branch banks abroad “on an equal footing with
foreign banks in dollar operations, and to increase the sources of offshore funds available to U.S. corporations and their foreign
subsidiaries for their foreign operations.” The effect of the Executive Order was to remove dollar loans made to foreigners by U.S.
branch banks abroad from liability for the tax.)
Other exemptions were provided by authorizing the President to exempt new securities issues of a foreign country if he decided
the tax imperiled the stability of the intermonetary system; this was intended to benefit Canada. Another exemption was made for
securities of less developed countries (to be designated by the President).
In his Feb. 10, 1965, balance-of-payments message, Mr. Johnson also announced that all new securities issued or guaranteed
by the Japanese Government would be exempted up to a total of $100 million annually.
Congress in the summer of 1965 passed an Administration bill extending the tax for 19 months through July 31, 1967. As signed
into law (PL 89-243) Oct. 9, 1965, the bill broadened the scope of the tax to cover the purchase of foreign bonds with a maturity
period of 1 to 3 years; the original Act taxed only purchases of bonds of more than three years maturity.
1967 Action
The President, in his 1967 Economic Report to Congress Jan. 26, asked that the tax be extended for two years and
strengthened. He said, “This tax has proved extremely useful in limiting the borrowing of developed countries in our capital
markets and in reinforcing the Federal Reserve voluntary program (to reduce dollar outflow). As we move toward easier money in
the United States, foreign borrowing in our financial markets may tend to increase.”
He asked for discretionary authority to vary the tax between zero and 2 percent to reflect changes in the spread of interest rates
between U.S. and foreign money markets.
House
COMMITTEE – Ways and Means.
HELD HEARINGS – Feb. 15 and 16 on the Administration's bill (HR 3813), introduced Jan. 25 by Committee Chairman Wilbur D.
Mills (D Ark.).
TESTIMONY – Feb. 15 – Treasury Under Secretary Frederick L. Deming related the legislation directly “to the Administration's
efforts to ease the domestic credit situation.” He said, “In fostering easier domestic credit…we cannot ignore the potential effects
on international capital flows and therefore on the U.S. balance of payments.”
Deming said that in December 1966 the average yield on outstanding long-term bonds issued by West European governments
was almost 1.5 percentage points above the yield on U.S. Treasury long-term bonds. He said many of the potential foreign
borrowers were foreign governments which would seek to attract U.S. investors who might otherwise invest in U.S. Government
bonds or other high-grade U.S. issues. In the first half of 1963, prior to enactment of the IET, he said, foreign governments were
borrowing here at an annual rate of $200 million. With the growing number of large international corporations, there also was
increasing private resort to international capital markets, he added.
Despite the tax, he said, private firms and government agencies in advanced countries between Feb. 10, 1965, and Dec. 31,
1966, drew an estimated $275 million of long-term funds, under U.S. bank commitments.
He said the balance-of-payments problem was not solved and so long as the Viet Nam war continued “our payments position will
be unusually heavily burdened.”
“In mid-1963, we were faced with an alarming acceleration of foreign demand for long-term U.S. portfolio capital. Between 1961
and 1962, new foreign security-issues in our market approximately doubled (from $523 million to $1,076,000,000). During the first
half of 1963, the level of new issues continued upward at a rapid pace. These increases were accompanied by a deterioration in
our overall balance-of-payments position.”
By contrast, Deming said, in 1966 there were only $19 million of taxable new security issues, and in 1965 there were $93 million
(of which all but $13 million reflected a special situation of United Kingdom firms borrowing here to finance direct-investment
expenditures in the United States).
During 1966, an important factor curtailing foreign portfolio borrowing here was the heavy loan demands by U.S. borrowers, he
said.
Deming stressed the President's need for flexibility because the interest rate differential between the United States and abroad
could move in either direction.
He said the legislation was regulatory rather than a revenue measure; the total tax collected from its inception through 1966 was
only $54 million. He said the President was not requesting Congress to delegate its taxing power.
Feb. 16 – The New York Stock Exchange called for exemptions on outstanding stocks of foreign companies. A spokesman said
2/8/10 1:22 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 6http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/docu…tion=print&time=1265653285711&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
Feb. 16 – The New York Stock Exchange called for exemptions on outstanding stocks of foreign companies. A spokesman said
that the balance-of-payments problem worsened because Europeans sold their stocks in U.S. corporations when the tax
undermined reciprocal relationships. The Exchange also asked that the extension be limited to one year, that the rates on new
issues of foreign securities not be raised, and questioned giving the President authority to vary the rate.
The Investment Bankers Assn. of America, urged a one-year extension, a more positive long-term solution to the problem, no
increases in rates on stocks, and authority for the President to vary rates on bonds and other debt securities up to twice the
existing rate.
The American Bankers Assn. (ABA) opposed the new provisions of the bill but said it would not object to an extension of the
existing tax up to 18 months.
Others opposed to the bill included the National Assn. of Manufacturers (NAM), the Investors League, Inc., and the National
Assn. of Securities Dealers (NASD).
ACTION. The Committee March 6 reported a clean bill (HR 6098 – H Rept 68) which had been introduced Feb. 27 by Mills. The
principal difference from the Administration bill was to limit the authority of the President to vary the tax rate from an interest
equivalent of 1 to 1.5 percent rather than from zero to 2 percent as he requested.
Majority Views. The IET, used in conjunction with other Administration endeavors, had lessened considerably the balance-of-
payments problem, the report said. (Measured on an over-all or “liquidity” basis, which reflected private foreign dollar holdings as
well as holdings of foreign central banks and other foreign official accounts, the deficit fell from an average of $2.5 billion in 1961
through 1964, to $1.3 billion in 1965 and, despite the increased overseas spending necessitated by the Viet Nam war, to an
estimated $1.4 billion in 1966.)
The two-year extension was meant to emphasize that the tax would not be considered as a permanent component of the tax
structure, but as a transitional device to permit orderly progress to a satisfactory long-run solution to the problem, the majority
contended.
As monetary pressures in the United States eased, the report said, renewed pressure might be created for an outflow of U.S.
capital; however the interest rate differential between the United States and other industrialized nations was unlikely to widen
beyond 1.5 percent. As a result, the majority concluded, it was necessary to provide the President authority to vary the tax rate
between narrow limits to ensure that the levy remained a flexible instrument.
Treasury Secretary Henry H. Fowler submitted a letter to the Committee stating that the Administration did not regard the grant of
authority to vary the rates as a precedent for a grant of similar authority with respect to the domestic tax system.
Republican Views. Byrnes (Wis.), Schneebeli (Pa.), Collier (Ill.), Broyhill (Va.), Conable (N.Y.) and Bush (Texas) agreed with
Republican colleagues (below) that the Administration had failed to adopt appropriate measures to meet the balance-of-payments
problem, but said even temporary measures might be preferable to no action.
Curtis (Mo.), Utt (Calif.), Betts (Ohio) and Baffin (Mont.) said they were opposed to the enactment of HR 6098 and to an increase
in the rate of tax. They said the bill “merely serves to becloud the real problem – excessive Government spending abroad.”
Government expenditures produced a deficit in the balance of payments of more than $3 billion per year, exclusive of Viet Nam,
they said, but the private sector of the economy did not give rise to the problem. Nearly four years since the “temporary”
measure was first proposed, the Administration still saw no solution, the four Republicans said.
Floor Action
The House March 15 passed HR 6098 by a 261–138 roll-call vote. (See vote 21, p. 12-H.)
Prior to passage, the House by a voice vote rejected a motion by Thomas B. Curtis (R Mo.) to recommit (kill) the bill.
Also prior to passage, the House by voice vote accepted three committee amendments, generally involving technical aspects of
the legislation.
John B. Anderson (R Ill.) said the original legislation was requested by the President “on a stopgap or temporary basis to buy
time….” He said HR 6098, the second renewal of the legislation “serves to illustrate that in Government parlance, there is nothing
quite so permanent as a temporary tax.” He viewed with “some concern” the granting of discretionary authority to the President
because previous administrations had wanted the authority “to tinker on some kind of discretionary basis with the tax structure of
this country.”
Curtis criticized the Department of Commerce and the Federal Reserve Board for sending the Committee press releases when
the Committee had asked for statements about the balance-of-payments problem. He called the Government's spending abroad
in aid and loan programs “the real villain.”
Mills said the Committee viewed the measure as temporary. He said he hoped that by July 1969 “it will not be necessary to
extend the tax further.” He said it would be repealed as soon as the balance-of-payments situation permitted. He also said there
was a need for flexibility in the tax but insisted the authority granted the President was not a precedent for other areas of the tax
law. “We do it (in HR 6098) because we do not know how far our rates of interest will drop here in the next few months
compared to how far the rates of interest will drop in some of these foreign countries.”
Curtis argued that the bill was designed to curb private investment abroad but there was no inclination on the part of the
Administration to curb Government investment abroad. He called the bill a “palliative” which does nothing about correcting “the
basic disease.”
2/8/10 1:22 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 6http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/docu…tion=print&time=1265653285711&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
PROVISIONS – As passed by the House, HR 6098:
Extended the Interest Equalization Tax for two years, from July 31, 1967, to July 31, 1969.
Continued the existing tax which, in effect, provided the equivalent of a 1-percent increase in interest costs for foreign borrowers
obtaining capital from U.S. sources either from the sale of stock or from the sale of debt obligations with a maturity of one year or
more.
Authorized the President to vary the tax between the interest equivalents of 1 percent and 1.5 percent.
Provided that during the period from Jan. 26, 1967, the day the President made his requests to Congress, until 30 days after the
enactment of HR 6098, a tax equivalent to a 1.5-percent interest cost was to be in effect to forestall large purchases of foreign
stocks and debt obligations in anticipation of an increase in the tax rate by Presidential order.
Exempted debt obligations acquired by Americans in connection with the sale of real property located outside the United States
which they held before the initiation of the tax in July 1963.
Exempted stock or debt obligations acquired by a foreigner during the first 90 days of residency in the United States. Provided,
however, that securities purchased under the exemption would be subject to the tax if subsequently sold to Americans.
Made several other minor modifications in the existing provisions of the tax.
Senate
COMMITTEE – Finance.
HELD HEARINGS – July 14 and 17 on HR 6098.
TESTIMONY – July 14 – Frederick L. Deming, Under Secretary of the Treasury for Monetary Affairs, called for strong action to
prevent “unscrupulous persons” from selling foreign securities tax free in the United States by means of false representation of
American ownership. Deming said investigations by the Internal Revenue Service had determined illegal security transactions of
this kind on the order of $100 million to $150 million a year. (Numerous press accounts said other high officials believed the
volume of such transactions was more likely in the range of an annual $250 million to $1 billion.)
Stanley S. Surrey, Assistant Treasury Secretary for Tax Policy, explained that the evasion scheme worked by operators buying
and selling stocks through dummy corporations chartered in foreign countries and paying expatriate Americans $10 or more to
sign false certificates of stock ownership. Surrey said that one American woman of “insubstantial means” who lived in Bermuda
had signed certificates over the last six months affirming ownership of over $10 million in foreign stocks.
The two officials submitted an amendment to tighten the loophole by requiring American sellers of foreign securities to obtain
validation from the IRS or certain approved private institutions that the tax actually had been paid. In anticipation of
Congressional action, they said, the IRS July 15 would begin issuing “validation certificates” to American holders of foreign
securities who already had paid the tax, and approved private institutions would begin issuing “IET clean confirmations” on new
transactions. Concerns eligible to issue the confirmations were to include all member firms of the New York and American stock
exchanges, large banks in major U.S. cities, and the larger members of the National Assn. of Securities Dealers (NASD). (It was
widely believed that the restriction of NASD eligibility to the larger dealers was intended to eliminate from the foreign securities
market a number of small firms that the IRS suspected of participating in the evasion scheme.) So that sellers of securities would
begin using the validations immediately, the Treasury asked that the validation requirement be made retroactive to July 15.
Sen. John J. Williams (R Del.), a member of the Committee, strongly criticized the Treasury officials for not learning of the evasion
scheme until three years after the tax had been enacted. Surrey replied that the Treasury had made every effort to enforce the
tax but had learned of the new scheme through the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) only several months before.
Since that time, he said, investigators had worked “day and night” to determine who was involved in the transactions and how to
tighten the loophole.
ACTION – The Committee July 21 reported HR 6098 (S Rept 405) with amendments. The measure was approved by a 12–3
vote. All the major changes adopted by the panel were key Administration requests: (1) approval of the requirement that
American sellers of foreign securities acquire validation of their payment of the tax; (2) restoration of a maximum tax rate
equalling an interest charge of 2 percent; and (3) restoration of the President s discretionary authority to vary the tax rate
between interest equivalents of zero and 2 percent.
Floor Action
The Senate July 25 passed HR 6098 by voice vote and sent the measure to conference with the House.
Prior to passage, the Senate by a 45–39 roll-call vote accepted an amendment by Eugene J. McCarthy (D Minn.) authorizing
exemptions from the IET on foreign mortgage notes and other debt obligations acquired by trusts set up by living Americans
through sales of real property located outside the United States which the person setting up the trust had held prior to initiation of
the tax in July 1963. (The House bill had authorized the exemption for obligations acquired by private Americans, and the Senate
Finance Committee had broadened the provision to make it applicable to trusts set up by a will.) The amendment was designed
to accommodate a sale of $2.5 million in trust property in the Bahamas which otherwise would be subject to the tax. (See vote
140, p. 33-S.)
2/8/10 1:22 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 6http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/docu…tion=print&time=1265653285711&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
The McCarthy amendment was opposed strongly by two members of the Finance Committee, John J. Williams (R Del.) and Albert
Gore (D Tenn.), who contended its purpose was only to aid “special interests.” Proponents, however, said the exemption would
help improve the U.S. balance of payments by giving the trusts an inducement to repatriate proceeds of their property sales to
the United States.
In other action, the Senate by a 34–51 roll call rejected an amendment by Williams to reduce the extension period of the IET
from two years to one. Williams argued that the shorter extension would allow Congress to “better evaluate” the continuing “effect
and effectiveness” of the tax. Because U.S. interest rates currently were almost competitive with those in Europe, he said, “the
need to close the interest rate gap through the interest equalization tax is…less than urgent.” (See vote 139, p. 33-S.)
PROVISIONS – As passed by the Senate, HR 6098 contained the same major provisions as the House-passed bill with the
exception of the committee and floor amendments discussed above.
Amendment Accepted
July 25 – Eugene J. McCarthy (D Minn.) – Provide an exemption from the IET for foreign mortgage notes and other debt
obligations acquired by trusts set up by living Americans through sales of real property located outside the United States which
the person setting up the trust had held prior to initiation of the tax in July 1963. Roll-call vote 45–39.
Amendment Rejected
July 25 – John J. Williams (R Del.) – Reduce the bill's extension period for the IET from two years to one Roll-call, 34–51.
Conference
REPORT – House and Senate conferees July 27 filed a conference report (H Rept 518) resolving differences between the two
versions of the bill. on the major variations between the measures, conferees: (1) accepted the Senate provision (not requested
by the Treasury until after House action) which required American sellers of foreign securities to secure validation that tax
requirements had been satisfied before they could make a transaction tax-free; and (2) agreed to a compromise settlement on the
issue of the President's discretionary authority to vary the rates of the tax. The compromise retained the Senate provision to
authorize the President to eliminate the levy or set it at any level below the existing interest equivalent of 1 percent, and it also
retained the House provision for a ceiling on the President's rate-making authority of no more than an effective rate of 1.5
percent (as opposed to the Senate maximum of 2 percent).
FINAL ACTION – The House July 31 by a 224–83 roll-call vote and the Senate the same day by voice vote adopted the
conference report on HR 6098. (See vote 104, p. 48-H.)
The actions sent the bill to the President, who signed it into law (PL 90 - 59) only hours prior to the scheduled expiration of
the tax.
Document Citation
"Interest Equalization Tax Extended for Two Years." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal67-1314183. Originally
published in CQ Almanac 1967 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1968). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal67-1314183 (accessed
February 8, 2010).
Document ID: cqal67-1314183
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal67-1314183
© 1968, 2010, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
