7/2/09 1:24 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283528&type=hitlist&num=0
Document Outline
Background
Committee Action
Floor Action
S&L Holding Companies
An article from CQ Almanac 1968
The Senate Jan. 30 cleared for the President's signature a bill (S 1542) to provide additional federal control over
savings and loan holding companies . Final action came when the Senate accepted House amendments to the
legislation.
The purpose of the bill was to give the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp. (FSLIC), which was administered
by the Federal Home Loan Bank Board (FHLBB), authority to protect savings and loan (S&L) associations from
abuses by parent savings and loan holding companies . S 1542 in effect replaced the existing law dealing with
S&L holding companies . That law – the 1959 Spence Act – limited the expansion of holding companies
but did not provide strong regulatory powers to control the activities of the industry.
The 1968 legislation was requested several times by President Johnson, most recently in his Feb. 1 Economic
Report. S 1542 was passed by the Senate in 1967 and by the House on Jan. 23 (see below). (For story on
Economic Report, see p. 183.)
Administration officials contended that much greater regulatory problems occurred with S&L associations that were
controlled by holding companies  than with associations not subject to holding -company control. The
officials noted that although only about 12.5 percent of all assets of the savings and loan industry were owned by 
holding companies , the S&L associations which were owned by holding companies  accounted for more than
60 percent of the “serious (financial) problem cases” before the FHLBB.
The increased regulatory powers conferrred by the bill were said to be necessary to prevent holding companies
from ruining S&L associations which they controlled. Holding companies  could – and sometimes did – use the
assets of controlled S&Ls to pay for activities in other areas. If these other activities ran into financial trouble, the
S&L assets could be dipped into more deeply and the associations could be pressured to increase their earnings
through financially shakey practices such as investing in speculative real estate. One proponent of the bill, Rep.
Henry S. Reuss (D Wis.), contended that holding companies  had been known to invest in racetrack and gambling
operations. In addition, FHLBB officials said the existing Spence Act did not permit access to holding  company
books and records, which greatly limited regulation, and was not strong enough even to prevent evasion of the
minimal controls that were in force.
Individual accounts at S&L associations were not directly threatened by failures because of FSLIC insurance against
default. However, the financial resources of the FSLIC as well as public confidence in the S&L system could be
impaired, officials contended.
There was relatively little controversy over the bill. Both Democrats and Republicans supported it, although some
GOP House Members were critical of certain parts of the bill.
S&L holding companies  were concentrated in a small number of states and primarily in California (48), Ohio
(14), Texas (7), Illinois (11) and Colorado (5). These states had 85 of the 98 companies  in existence at the end
of 1966.
PROVISIONS—As signed by the President, S 1542 (PL 90-255):
Required S&L holding companies  to register with the FHLBB and issue periodic reports; gave the FHLBB
investigative and examination authority over the holding companies .
Tightened several loopholes in the Spence Act to prohibit self-dealing financial transactions between a controlled
S&L and the parent holding  company or its subsidiaries or any affiliate.
Required holding companies  controlling more than one S&L to divest themselves of unrelated activities within
two years with an additional three-year period allowed upon FHLBB approval. (There were 12 holding companies
 of the total of 98 which would be affected.)
 
7/2/09 1:24 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283528&type=hitlist&num=0
Gave the FHLBB additional authority over the debt structure of the holding companies  by requiring a holding
 company to obtain FHLBB approval for debts equal to more than 15 percent of the company's net worth. Broadly
defined “debt” to include any note or other instrument “commonly used as evidence of indebtedness” or any contract
or agreement requiring the eventual payment of money.
In the case of a holding  company with only one association and which was primarily in another line of
business, the FHLBB was given authority to exercise a veto over dividends paid by the subsidiary S&L.
Prohibited future holding companies  from acquiring S&Ls in two or more states, but exempted three existing
interstate holding companies .
Repealed the Spence Act provision prohibiting holding companies  from acquiring S&Ls through acquisition and
merger on the theory it was no longer necessary in view of the additional control given to the FHLBB. Acquisition
through purchase or merger would be subject to FHLBB approval.
Authorized action in a U.S. district court to enforce compliance with the law or to require divestiture of unrelated
activities.
Provided penalties for any company of up to $1,000 in fines for each day a violation of the law continued. Provided
penalties for any individual of up to $10,000 in fines and/or up to one year in prison.
Background
Savings and loan associations had been part of the U.S. banking community since before 1900. The industry
included federal associations, authorized by the Home Owner's Loan Corp. Act of 1933 (PL 73-43), and state
chartered associations. All federal associations and most state associations were mutual organizations owned by
savers through purchase of withdrawable shares in the association. Some states permitted stock associations that
resembled ordinary business corporations except that the capital represented by the savers' stock was retained in
the association as a guarantee for the payment of the savers' withdrawable shares. In recent years holding
companies  began buying the stock of stock associations at an increasing pace and thus gaining control of a
number of associations.
Spence Act. The growth of savings and loan holding companies  prompted Congress in 1959 to enact a law
(PL 86-374), known as the Spence Act after its sponsor, Rep. Brent Spence (D Ky. 1931–63), to halt the accelerating
trend of acquisition of stock associations by S&L holding companies . The law prohibited existing S&L holding
companies  from acquiring any additional stock S&L institutions except in emergency situations to prevent failure of
an association; however, new holding companies  could be formed to control one association. Certain financial
transactions between the associations and the parent holding  company or its subsidiaries also were prohibited.
The Spence Act did not prohibit a S&L holding  company from acquiring additional businesses, such as banks,
insurance companies , and real estate development corporations.
Federal officials who oversee S&L companies  said that the Spence Act restriction, although helpful, had not
been as effective or desirable in preventing abuses in holding  company operations.
FHLBB Report. The Spence Act required the Federal Home Loan Bank Board to survey the S&L holding
company industry to determine if new legislation was required.
The FHLBB report was issued in 1960. The findings of the report, combined with the continuing rapid growth of S&L
holding companies , led the FHLBB to recommend legislation in the 88th and 89th Congresses. No action was
taken on the recommended bills.
President Johnson, in his Economic Messages for 1966, 1967, and 1968, recommended stronger regulation of
savings and loan holding companies , but no action occurred. In 1966, however, Congress enacted other
legislation (S 3158 – PL 89-695) which gave federal officials new regulatory powers over certain financial institutions,
including savings and loan associations. One provision of the bill amended the Spence Act to permit holding
companies  to control more than one federally insured institution, provided the FHLBB deemed it advisable in order
to prevent a failure. (1966 Almanac p. 748)
Senate Action. The Senate June 26, 1967, passed its version of the legislation (S 1542). (1967 Almanac p. 888)
Committee Action
COMMITTEE – House Banking and Currency.
HELD HEARINGS – The Subcommittee on Domestic Finance of the Banking and Currency Committee held
hearings Aug. 21–22, 1967, on HR 8696 introduced April 18 by Wright Patman (D Texas), chairman.
ACTION – Dec. 6 reported HR 8696 (H Rept 997) amended.
The purpose of HR 8696 was to provide a comprehensive statutory framework for the registration, examination and
7/2/09 1:24 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283528&type=hitlist&num=0
The purpose of HR 8696 was to provide a comprehensive statutory framework for the registration, examination and
regulation of holding companies  controlling one or more savings and loan associations.
The provisions of HR 8696, as amended by the Committee, were in most cases identical to those of S 1542 passed
by the Senate June 26. HR 8696 was reported from Committee by a 30–1 vote with the negative vote cast by
Chalmers P. Wylie (R Ohio).
One important difference between S 1542 and HR 8696 as reported was in the debt allowed by holding
companies . To avoid situations where holding companies  might have to rely too much on the S&L
subsidiaries to repay debts, HR 8696 required parent concerns to obtain FHLBB approval for total debts exceeding
15 percent of the holding  company's net worth. S 1542 contained a 5 percent provision applicable only to short-
term debt.
Minority Views. Twelve of 14 Committee Republicans said there were three defects in the bill. The two who did not
sign the views were Chester L. Mize (Kan.) and Sherman P. Lloyd (Utah).
They said one defect was the debt control provision. The Republicans said the definition of “debt” was so broad that
it would enable the FHLBB “to usurp the functions of management and actually control operating expenses,
including officer salaries, of a savings and loan holding  company.”
A second defect, Republicans said, was required holding  company divestiture without appropriate tax relief for
proceeds of the sales.
The third objection pertained to prohibited transactions between a holding  company or its affiliates and a
subsidiary S&L institution. The bill required FSLJC written approval if such transactions exceeded the lesser of
$100,000 or one-tenth of one percent of the insured association's assets. The Republicans said the holding
company industry believed these limitations to be unduly and unnecessarily restrictive.
Floor Action
The House Jan. 23 passed HR 8696 by voice vote after limited debate.
The bill was passed essentially as reported. One relatively minor floor amendment was accepted. Several major
Republican-sponsored amendments were rejected. The amendments were directed at parts of the bill which the
GOP criticized in the Committee report.
After passage of HR 8696, the House substituted the language of HR 8696 for that of S 1542 and passed S 1542 by
voice vote.
Both Democrats and Republicans agreed that new legislation to regulate holding companies  was needed.
Debate centered mainly on the amount of control.
Amendment Accepted
Jan. 23 – Thomas L. Ashley (D Ohio) – Provide that during the first year the law is in effect, a holding  company
may be classified as diversified (and thus not subject to as strict controls under the bill) at any time that it meets
qualifications in the bill. (After the first year, a company's classification will be determined as of the last day of its
preceding fiscal year.) Voice vote.
Amendments Rejected
Jan. 23 – Del Clawson (R Calif.) – Exempt existing holding companies  from divestiture of unrelated activities.
Standing vote, 18–29.
Clawson – Provide that divestiture proceedings would not be required until an amendment to Congress enacted tax-
relief legislation to assist companies  affected by the requirement. Standing, 31–46.
William B. Widnall (R N.J.) – Narrow the definition of “debt security” to cover only notes or similar certificates of
indebtedness. (This eliminated broader language which covered any “instrument commonly used” to indicate
indebtedness or any other agreement requiring payment of money. Accepted, teller, 76–73; rejected, roll call 156–
189. (See vote 2, p. 2-H.)
Ashley – Allow business transactions between a holding company and a subsidiary S&L if such transactions
occur at “established market prices.” Standing, 40–54.
Document Citation
"S&L Holding Companies." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal68-1283528. Originally published in
CQ Almanac 1968 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1969). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal68-1283528
(accessed July 2, 2009).
7/2/09 1:24 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283528&type=hitlist&num=0
Document ID: cqal68-1283528
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal68-1283528
© 1969, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
