7/2/09 1:29 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283573&type=hitlist&num=1
Document Outline
Summary of Major Provisions
Background
Provisions
House
Conference Action
Summary of Action on S 5
Congress Enacts Strong  Truth-In-Lending Law
An article from CQ Almanac 1968
Congress  in 1968 enacted into law a truth-in-lending bill (S 5—PL 90-321) to help consumers make informed
decisions when they obtain credit.
The legislation was one of the toughest and most far-reaching consumers bills enacted by Congress  in many
years. Enactment came in the 90th Congress  after almost a decade of controversy which kept the legislation
buried in committee. The first truth-in-lending bill was introduced by Sen. Paul H. Douglas (D Ill. 1949–67) in 1959.
Although Douglas was no longer a Member of Congress  when the proposals he championed were approved in
1968, the bill that was sent to the President May 22 provided the essence of his earlier measures: disclosure to
consumers of useful information about credit transactions.
Truth in lending was a label which described bills that required lenders and other consumer creditors to provide their
customers full, honest and—most importantly—comparable information about the cost of the credit the consumers
were buying. The heart of these bills was a requirement that buyers be told the cost of loans and installment
purchase plans in terms of an annual rate calculated under certain specified procedures by all lenders and
creditors. The resulting uniformity was intended to permit consumers to make valid cost comparisons between the
lending rates or installment plans of different stores or lending institutions just as they could compare the prices of,
say, automobiles or washing machines manufactured by different companies. This generally was not possible from
the mish-mash of rates and lending conditions cited by creditors under current conditions in the market-place unless
the consumer went to considerable pains by using complex mathematical formulae to make different quoted figures
comparable.
Summary of Major Provisions
The heart of S 5 was the requirement for disclosure of information about credit. But the bill contained a number of
other provisions, most of which were added in the House and which greatly strengthened S 5 as it had passed the
Senate in 1967.
Following is a summary of the bill.
Truth in Lending. The major part of the legislation was contained in Title I which covered credit disclosures and
was entitled the Truth-in-Lending Act (the entire bill was called the Consumer Credit Protection Act).
Title I required creditors such as a store or loan company to give the consumer in writing certain specified
information about the extension of credit. This had to be done before the credit was given.
The key information that had to be disclosed was the amount of the finance charge, both in dollars and cents and in
terms of an annual percentage rate. The rate, however, could be approximate—rather than mathematically exact—
within limits set by federal officials. Moreover, the rate had to be in terms of what is commonly called the “true”
annual interest rate. This is the rate on the amount of money that a consumer actually has available for his use
over the repayment period.
In a commonly cited example, it would work like this: if a consumer borrowed $100 with a finance charge of $6 and
repaid the loan in 12 months in equal installments, he would have had the use—on the average—of approximately
one-half of the original amount of credit over the course of the year. Under existing conditions, lenders usually
would say the loan was made at 6 percent. However, under the requirements in S 5, the rate would be measured
against the declining amount or the amount actually in use and this would produce a “true” annual percentage rate
of about 11 percent; this is the figure that would have to be given to the consumer.
In practice, the rates cited to consumers were expected to be
obtained from standard tables prepared under Government
supervision. But in any event, the figures cited would be
 
7/2/09 1:29 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283573&type=hitlist&num=1
S 5—Reported by Senate Banking and
Currency Committee (S Kept 392) June
29, 1967.
S 5—Passed by a 92–0 roll-call vote of
the Senate July 11, 1967. (See vote 126,
1967 Almanac p. 30-S.)
HR 11601—Reported by House Banking
and Currency Committee (H Rept 1040)
Dec. 13, 1967.
HR 11601—Passed, amended, by a 383–
4 roll-call vote of the House Feb. 1, 1968.
(See vote 5, p. 2-H.)
S 5—Passed, amended, by voice vote of
the House Feb. 1, 1968.
S 5—Conference report (H Rept 1397)
agreed to by voice votes of the Senate
and House May 22, 1968.
PL 90-321—Signed into law May 29, 1968.
supervision. But in any event, the figures cited would be
comparable from one store or bank to another.
Until Jan. 1, 1971, the rate cited to consumers could be expressed
—if the creditor desired to do so—in dollars per hundred. Thus in
the above example, the rate would be cited as $11 per $100. This
was to avoid any possible conflict with state usury laws which
frequently limited interest to amounts lower than those expected to
be cited to consumers under current market conditions. It was
assumed that states would change their laws by 1971, when the
rate would have to be expressed as an annual percentage—11
percent in the example.
The disclosure requirements were to go into effect on July 1, 1969.
An exemption from the disclosure requirements was provided for
small amounts. The annual percentage rate did not have to be
given if the finance charge was no more than $5 on amounts up to
$75 and was less than $7.50 on amounts above $75.
Revolving Credit. A major controversy which delayed enactment
of S 5 involved the treatment of the increasingly popular open-
ended credit arrangements. These were better known as revolving
charge accounts. They usually were offered by department stores
and central credit agencies serving numerous small businesses.
The accounts typically had an interest charge of 1–1/2 percent a
month on the balance owed. The Senate required only that the
monthly rate be stated, but the House required that this be
translated into the nominal annual rate—18 percent in the case of
1–1/2-percent monthly charges.
The final bill required that both the periodic (usually monthly) and the nominal annual rate be stated. This was a
victory for the House and for advocates of a strong  truth-in-lending provision on revolving credit. But in
addition, the final bill allowed an optional third interest rate to be given the consumer. This was to be the average
effective annual interest rate earned or expected to be earned by the store on its revolving account business. This
usually would be somewhat less than the nominal rate because it would take account of the “free-time” which
customers have (usually a month) before they are charged interest.
As a result of this compromise, a typical revolving charge-account bill received each month by a consumer could
have three interest rates stated on it: the monthly rate, the nominal annual rate, and the effective annual rate on the
store's revolving account business.
Credit Advertising. The bill required that advertisements for credit which gave some details on the terms provide
enough information to be meaningful. The information which had to be included, if any was given at all, was spelled
out in the bill. The provisions also required an advertiser to be able to meet the claims he made in an ad.
Mortgages. First mortgages generally were brought under the disclosure requirements of the bill. However, home
lenders were not required to provide the total dollar cost of the financing charge on a mortgage. The interest charge
over the life of a home mortgage often is nearly as much as the cost of the home itself and mortgage lenders feared
that disclosure of this fact might frighten away some potential home buyers. Generally the home mortgage business
already stated interest rates as a true annual percentage rate. Thus, it was expected that S 5 would have relatively
little effect on the home loan industry.
The bill imposed new restrictions aimed at ending fraudulent second mortgage practices which had bilked many low-
income persons in recent years. Typically, fast-talking salesmen selling everything from color television sets to home
intercom systems would get these home-owners to sign second mortgages on their property without explaining the
nature of the papers that were signed. Frequently, the home-owners, unable to meet the payments on the
improvements or products they had purchased, would lose their homes.
The second mortgage provisions of S 5, which were a Republican proposal sponsored in the House by Rep. William
T. Cahill (R N.J.), gave the home-owner three days in which to cancel any agreement into which he had entered
involving a second mortgage. In addition, any security interest in property must be clearly explained to the consumer
as involving a mortgage or lien. The consumer was given the right to cancel absolutely and unconditionally even if
the mortgage paper had been sold to another person who was not aware of the fraudulent nature of the transaction.
Garnishment. A provision of the bill, which was added in the House, imposed restrictions on the amount of money
that a creditor could garnish from the paycheck of a consumer who was in debt to him. No more than 25 percent of
the worker's take-home pay (after deductions for taxes and the like) would be garnished. A flat $48 weekly
exemption from garnishment was provided for low-income workers even if that was more than 75 percent of their
take-home pay.
Loan Sharking. The final bill also included a Republican proposal sponsored by Rep. Richard H. Poff (R Va.) to fight
“loan sharking” by criminals. In the bill, the section was called extortionate credit transactions. Making or financing
extortionate extensions of credit and attempting to collect any extension of credit by extortionate means was made a
7/2/09 1:29 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283573&type=hitlist&num=1
extortionate extensions of credit and attempting to collect any extension of credit by extortionate means was made a
federal offense subject to maximum penalties of $10,000 and 20 years' imprisonment. Extortionate was defined to
mean the use of violence to collect the amounts due on the loans. In order to avoid the problem of witnesses who
are reluctant to testify because of their fear of personal harm, the bill provided that extortion would be presumed to
exist if certain conditions were proved. They were spelled out in the provisions.
Republicans said the provisions were aimed at organized crime, which was said to profit greatly from extortionate
credit. (See separate story on loan sharking hearings.)
Background
The first truth-in-lending bill was introduced by Sen. Douglas in 1959. That bill and others introduced in the 87th,
88th and 89th Congresses all failed of enactment. (For details of truth-in-lending's history, see 1967 Almanac p.
717.)
The deadlock was broken in the 90th Congress  after Douglas was defeated for re-election in 1966. Douglas'
defeat—ironically—was one factor which was thought to have helped the passage of the bill in the 90th Congress
. Douglas had adamantly maintained that a “simple” annual interest rate should be disclosed by all creditors
(including those providing revolving credit). He was unwilling to compromise.
Three other factors also were important in the enactment of the bill. One was the 1966 primary election defeat of
Sen. A. Willis Robertson (D Va.), who was chairman of the Senate Banking and Currency Committee and an adamant
opponent of truth-in-lending legislation. The uncompromising and diametrically opposed views of Douglas and
Robertson were major reasons that truth-in-lending bills never were reported by the Senate Banking Committee.
The second factor was President Johnson's strong  endorsement, in his Feb. 16, 1967, consumer affairs
message, of annual rate disclosure and other consumer credit protections which Douglas had supported. The third
factor was the willingness of Sen. William Proxmire (D Wis.), who replaced Douglas as the champion of the
legislation, to bargain with the credit industry to write a bill the industry felt it could live with. Proxmire Jan. 11, 1967,
introduced S 5, the bill the President endorsed.
The more flexible approach taken by Proxmire permitted a bill to be reported in the Senate by the middle of 1967. A
key compromise was to exempt revolving credit from the requirement of annual rate disclosure. Retailers using this
form of credit were required to give only the periodic (usually monthly) interest rate.
As a result of this and other compromises, S 5 was passed by the Senate July 11, 1967, by a 92–0 roll-call vote.
In the House, the Banking and Currency Committee was working on its own bill, HR 11601. The Committee
accepted the basic disclosure requirements of S 5, including an exemption from disclosure of an annual interest rate
for revolving accounts. In addition, the Committee added various features to the bill which the Senate did not
consider. The bill was reported Dec. 13, 1967.
When HR 11601 came to the House floor in late January, support for the revolving credit compromise had declined.
This was attributed in part to lobbying efforts by banks and other lenders who had to disclose annual interest rates
under the bill and did not want any exemptions for revolving credit. In addition, several major department stores had
switched their positions to oppose the revolving credit exemption. As a result, the House struck the exemption from
the bill, added provisions on second mortgages and loan sharking and passed it Feb. 1 by a 383–4 roll-call vote.
(See vote 5, p. 2-H.)
Conferees on the bill did not reach agreement until May 15, primarily because of disagreement over the revolving
charge account section. The conference report (H Rept 1397) was filed May 20 and was adopted by voice votes of
the House and Senate May 22.
President Johnson again had endorsed the legislation in his Feb. 6, 1968, consumer interest message. (For text,
see p. 30-A.)
Provisions
As signed into law, S 5, the Consumer Credit Protection Act, contained the following major provisions:
Title I—Truth-In-Lending Act
Open-End Consumer Credit ((Revolving Credit). Required a creditor to disclose the following information about an
open-end consumer credit account on every bill sent out to cover a payment period:
The outstanding balance at the beginning of the period; the amount and number of purchases charged to the account;
and the amount of any finance charge added to the account during the period.
The periodic rate used to compute the finance charge and the corresponding annual percentage rate, determined by
multiplying the periodic rate by the number of periods in a year (typically, this would be 1 1/2 percent a month and 18
percent a year).
7/2/09 1:29 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283573&type=hitlist&num=1
The balance on which the finance charge was computed and a statement of how the balance was determined; the
outstanding balance in the account at the end of the period; and the date by which a payment must be made to avoid
an additional finance charge.
Permitted the creditor at his discretion to state—in addition to the periodic and annual rate—a third rate: the
average effective annual percentage rate actually or expected to be earned by the company on the type of accounts
covered by this section of the bill.
Exempted from the interest-rate disclosure requirement finance charges of 50 cents or less a month on small
balances. (In a typical situation where a store charges 1 1/2 percent a month, the finance charge would be 50 cents
on a $33 balance. If the balance dropped below $33 and the store charged a minimum of 50 cents, the actual rate
would rise above the usual monthly rate but this higher rate would not have to be stated by the store.)
New Accounts—Required a store before opening a new account for a customer to disclose substantially the same
information about billing procedures, finance charges and interest rates as he must include on regular bills.
Consumer Sales Not Under Open-End Credit Plans. Required a creditor to disclose the following information to a
customer before he extended credit for the purchase of property or service:
The cash price of the property or service minus any downpayment, and any charges other than the finance charge
which are part of the credit extended.
The total amount to be financed and the amount of the finance charge expressed in dollars and cents (except that the
finance charge on the purchase of a house did not have to be stated).
The finance charge expressed as an annual percentage rate except if the charge did not exceed (1) $5 on an amount
financed up to $75 and (2) $7.50 on an amount financed above $75. Specified that a creditor could not divide the credit
into two or more sales to avoid disclosure of the interest rate.
The number, amount and due dates or periods of payments; the default, delinquency or similar charges resulting from
late payments; and a description of any security interest required by the creditor.
Provided methods to meet these requirements in the case of mail order or telephone sales.
Consumer Loans Not Under Open-End Credit Plans. Required a lender to disclose the following information to a
customer before he made a consumer loan:
The amount of credit which will be actually available to the consumer, any charges other than the finance charge
included in the credit extended and the resulting total amount to be financed.
The amount of the finance charge, expressed in dollars and cents (except that the finance charge did not have to be
disclosed in the case of a loan for a purchase of a house).
The finance charge expressed as an annual percentage rate, except if the charge did not exceed (1) $5 on a loan of up
to $75 and (2) $7.50 on a loan of more than $75. Specified that a lender could not divide the loan into two or more parts
to avoid disclosure of the interest rate.
The number, amount and due dates or periods of payments; the default, delinquency or similar charges resulting from
late payments; and a description of any security interest required by the lender.
Provided methods to meet these requirements in the case of loans made by mail or telephone.
Finance Charge. Required that a finance charge which must be disclosed to the consumer include all direct and
indirect charges paid by the consumer to obtain the credit, including such items as interest, amounts payable under
a point or discount system, service or carrying charges, loan fees, investigation or credit report charges and
premiums protecting the creditor against loss.
Required that charges for credit life, accident or health insurance be included in the finance charge unless the
coverage was not required to obtain the credit and this was disclosed in writing to the consumer, and the consumer
indicated his desire to have the coverage after receiving written disclosure of the cost.
Required that charges for property and liability insurance be included in the finance charge unless the creditor
discloses to the consumer in writing that the consumer may obtain the insurance from a source other than the
creditor.
Excluded from the finance charge were certain specified items such as legal fees paid to public officials, taxes, and
charges usually made in connection with the purchase of a home or other real property (such as deed preparation,
title examination, etc.).
Annual Percentage Rate. Specified the methods to be used to determine the annual percentage rate on the types
of credit covered by the bill so as to provide consumers with figures that were comparable from one store or lending
institution to another.
7/2/09 1:29 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283573&type=hitlist&num=1
Authorized the use of rate tables to determine annual percentage rates.
Permitted annual percentage rates cited to consumers under methods approved by federal officials to vary slightly
from a rate based on precise mathematical calculations.
Permitted any percentage rate required by the bill to be stated in dollars per hundred until Jan. 1, 1971, after which
it would have to be expressed as a percentage figure. (Thus a 9-percent interest rate on a loan could be expressed
as $9 per $100 until 1971. This was to avoid any possible conflict with state usury laws, many of which limited
interest to smaller percentages. Presumably, the states would change their laws by 1971.)
Penalties. Provided criminal penalties of up to $5,000 in fines and/or one year imprisonment for violation of the
disclosure requirements of the bill.
Provided civil penalties as follows: any creditor who fails to disclose information to a consumer as required by the
law is liable to the consumer for (1) twice the amount of the finance charge, with a minimum payment of $100 and a
maximum payment of $1,000 and (2) the costs, including an attorney's fee, to enforce the liability.
Provided a grace period of 15 days for a creditor to correct an error in disclosure of information without suffering
liability. Permitted a creditor to avoid liability by proving an error was not intentional.
Credit Advertising. Provided that advertisements of credit meet certain disclosure requirements, as follows:
Credit Other Than Open-End (Revolving) Plans—Provided that if an advertisement stated the rate of a finance
charge, it must express the rate as an annual percentage rate.
Provided that if an advertisement stated the amount of a downpayment, the amount of an installment payment, the
dollar amount of a finance charge or the number of installments or the period of repayment, then it must also state
all of the following: (1) the cash price or the amount of the loan: (2) the downpayment; (3) the number, amount and
due dates or period of payments; and (4) the rate of the finance charge expressed as an annual percentage rate.
Specified that this section applied to a consumer credit sale, loan or other credit extension other than open-end
credit, but exempted advertisements for residential real estate except to the extent that the Federal Reserve Board
may require by regulation.
Open-End (Revolving) Credit Plans—Required that any advertisement for this type of credit which gave any
specific terms of the plan or the effective interest rate earned by a store on this type of credit must also state all of
the following information: (1) the time period for repayment without incurring a finance charge; (2) the method of
determining the balance upon which a finance charge is based;' (3) the method of determining a finance charge,
including any minimum charge; (4) any periodic rate (if that is used) expressed as an annual percentage rate; and
(5) such other information as the Federal Reserve Board may require to allow adequate comparison of credit costs
between different plans.
Downpayment, Installment Advertising—Prohibited advertising claims of consumer credit amounts, installment
amounts or downpayments unless the creditor “usually and customarily” meets the claims set forth in the
advertisement. (This provision was intended to halt the practice of bait-and-switch advertising.)
Exemption—Exempted publications and other media from liability under the advertising section.
Second Mortgages. Allowed a consumer three days in which to cancel a consumer credit agreement in which an
interest in any real property used as his residence is obtained by the creditor as security for the credit. Provided that
the three-day period for recision would follow consummation of the agreement or the delivery of disclosures required
under the law.
Required the creditor clearly and conspicuously to disclose the rights of the consumer under this section, and the
fact that a security interest in property involved a second mortgage or lien.
Specified that the three-day cancellation privilege did not apply in the case of an ordinary purchase of a home
through a first mortgage.
Regulation, Enforcement. Provided that regulations to carry out the law would be prescribed by the Federal
Reserve Board.
Specified that enforcement would be carried out by the courts (see section on Penalties) and by those federal
agencies with specific responsibility for separate segments of the credit industry; specified that the Federal Trade
Commission would have residual jurisdiction over all segments of the credit industry not specifically enumerated in
the enforcement provisions.
Exempted Transactions. Specified that Title I did not apply to (1) business or commercial credit transactions,
governmental agencies or organizations; (2) securities or commodities transactions by a broker-dealer registered
with the Securities and Exchange Commission; (3) transactions in which the amount to be financed exceeds
$25,000; and (4) transactions for public utility services which are under state regulation.
State Laws. Specified that Title I did not annul or alter any state law not inconsistent with the federal law, or
exempt any creditor from complying with state laws on the same subject.
7/2/09 1:29 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283573&type=hitlist&num=1
Reports. Required the Federal Reserve Board and the Attorney General on Jan. 3 of each year after 1969 to report
to Congress  on the administration of Title I.
Title II-Extortionate Credit Transactions (Loan Sharking)
Definition. Defined extortionate extension of credit as the extension of any credit in which both the creditor and the
debtor understand when the credit is extended that delay in repayment or failure to repay could result in the use of
violence or other criminal means to cause harm to the person, reputation or property of any individual.
Charging Extortionate Credit. Provided that any person making extortionate extension of credit would be subject to
fines of up to $10,000 and/or 20 years in prison.
Specified that extortion would be presumed to exist if the prosecution in a court case could prove all of the following
four factors: (1) The lender was legally unable to collect the amount due under state laws; (2) the interest rate on
the loan was more than 45 percent on an annual basis; (3) the lender had a reputation for extortion in the
community of which the borrower was a member; (4) the loan was more than $100.
Collection of Credit by Extortion. Provided penalties of up to $10,000 in fines and/or 20 years' imprisonment for
any person who uses extortionate means to collect or attempt to collect on any loan or to punish another person for
nonrepayment of any loan. (This provision was aimed at the use of extortion to collect a loan regardless of how the
indebtedness arose.)
Financing Credit Extortion. Provided penalties of up to $10,000 in fines and/or 20 years' imprisonment for any
person who willfully advances money or property with “reasonable grounds to believe” that the money or property
would be used to make extortionate extensions of credit.
Compulsory Testimony. Authorized the Government, in any court or grand jury case involving a violation of this
section, to require the testimony of a witness who claims the 5th Amendment against self-incrimination. Permitted
testimony to be required only by a court order on application by the U.S. Attorney General, and granted immunity
from prosecution to the witness on matters on which he was compelled to testify.
Preemption. Specified that this title did not preempt any state laws on the same subject.
Title III—Garnishment
Exempted from garnishment either 75 percent of a person's weekly disposable earnings or an amount equal to 30
times the national minimum wage, whichever amount was the larger. (Under the existing minimum wage of $1.60 an
hour, a worker would have at least $48 of his disposable earnings exempted from garnishment.) Provided that the
Secretary of Labor would arrange by regulation for pay periods longer than a week.
Defined “disposable earnings” as the amount of a person's total earnings remaining after deductions required by
law.
Provided that the restrictions on the amount of a garnishment did not apply to court orders for support of any
person, court orders dealing with bankruptcy proceedings and any state or federal tax debt.
Prohibited an employer from firing an employee because of a single incidence of garnishment. Provided penalties of
up to $1,000 and/or one year imprisonment for violation of this restriction.
Directed the Wage and Hour Division of the Labor Department to enforce this title.
Defined garnishment as any legal or equitable procedure through which the earnings of any individual are required
to be withheld for payment of any debt.
Title IV—Consumer Finance Commission
Established a nine-member National Commission on Consumer Finance composed of three Members of the Senate,
three Members of the House and three persons appointed by the President from private life.
Directed the Commission to study the functioning and structure of the consumer finance industry and consumer
credit transactions generally.
Required the Commission to report on (1) the adequacy of existing arrangements to provide consumer credit at
reasonable rates; (2) the adequacy of existing arrangements to protect the public from unfair practices and insure
the informed use of consumer credit; (3) the desirability of federal chartering of consumer finance companies or
other federal regulatory measures.
Required the Commission to submit its report and recommendations by Jan. 1, 1971.
Provided the Commission with subpena powers.
Authorized appropriations of $1,500,000 for the Commission.
Effective Dates
7/2/09 1:29 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283573&type=hitlist&num=1
Provided that the disclosure requirements for opened credit, consumer sales credit and loans take effect on July 1,
1969.
Provided that the restrictions on credit advertising take effect on July 1, 1969.
Provided that the garnishment requirements take effect on July 1, 1970.
Provided that all other provisions take effect upon enactment of the legislation.
House
The House Feb. 1, by a 383–4 roll-call vote, passed HR 11601. (See vote 5, p. 2-H.) By voice vote, it then
substituted the provisions of that bill for those of the weaker Senate bill (S 5) and sent S 5 to conference.
A recommittal motion offered by James A. McClure (R Idaho) to kill HR 11601 was defeated by voice vote. Voting
against passage were McClure, Thomas G. Abernethy (D Miss.), G.V. Montgomery (D Miss.) and Robert G. Stephens Jr.
(D Ga.).
House passage of S 5 was preceded by three days of debate beginning Jan. 30. (For House Committee report, see
1967 Almanac p. 725.)
Revolving Accounts, $10 Exemption. The focus of the debate was Leonor K. Sullivan's (D Mo.) effort to strike from
HR 11601 annual rate disclosure exemptions for revolving charge accounts and for loans on which the finance
charge came to less than $10. The House Jan. 31 by a 19–131 standing vote, rejected a Committee amendment
exempting retail revolving accounts from providing annual rate disclosures. The small-loan amendment, also
contained in the Committee bill, was rejected the same day by voice vote.
Mrs. Sullivan, floor manager of the bill, said the two exemptions were “special interest, anticonsumer… loopholes”
which had been “lifted almost verbatim from the Senate bill.” There was no reason to include the exemptions in HR
11601 “other than to weaken the legislation,” she said.
Her appeal to vote down a Committee amendment excluding revolving charge accounts from annual disclosure,
Mrs. Sullivan said, was “the moment of truth for truth-in-lending.”
Business support for the revolving charge exemption, she said, had crumbled to almost nothing. She reported that
she had received telegrams Jan. 29 from representatives of three of the largest catalogue houses – Spiegel's,
Montgomery Ward and Sears Roebuck – all of which offered revolving charge plans and had supported the
exemption in hearings before the Committee. All three, Mrs. Sullivan said, now opposed the annual rate exemption.
Richard T. Hanna (D Calif.), a member of the Committee, challenged the motives of the three retailers in changing
their position on the annual rate exemption. Their new stand, he maintained, was nothing “more or less than a
position based on narrow self-interest.” Hanna said that the practices the three large houses used in computing their
charges every month actually gave them a yield of between 30 and 45 percent – not the 18 percent that the
customer nominally paid. Consequently, Hanna said, it was to the stores' advantage to use the 18-percent annual
rate disclosure.
Mrs. Sullivan also urged defeat of a second Committee amendment exempting from annual rate disclosure small
loans on which the finance charge was less than $10.
No support was expressed for the $10 finance charge exemption – even by members of the Committee which had
written the amendment into HR 11601.
Loan Sharking. The House Jan. 31, by voice vote, accepted an amendment – later confirmed Feb. 1 by a 383–5
roll-call vote – placing severe federal penalties on loan sharks and their associates who charge interest rates in
excess of the usury levels set in most states. (See vote 4, p. 2-H.)
The amendment, offered by Richard H. Poff (R Va.), was identified by Minority Leader Gerald R. Ford Jan. 30, as
part of a GOP anticrime program announced in December 1967.
Poff explained that the “thrust of this amendment is to fix a federal definition of the crime of usury.” Designed from
the “anti-racketeering” sections of the Criminal Code (Title 18), the amendment would make it a federal crime, with
a $10,000 penalty, to practice loan sharking. The term was defined to mean the lending of money at rates prohibited
by state usury statutes. Poff said the amendment also would “activate the investigating arm of the Federal
Government” to help enforce the usury laws of state and local governments. (Usury laws, in effect in 43 states, set
a limit, generally 6 percent, on interest. Some states, however, had usury limits of up to 240 percent.)
In the 383–5 roll-call vote, accepting Poff's amendment, the five who voted against it were Reps. Emanuel Celler (D
N.Y.), chairman of the Judiciary Committee, Bob Eckhardt (D Texas), Frank E. Evans (D Colo.), Henry B. Gonzalez (D
Texas) and James H. Scheuer (D N.Y.).
Wage Garnishment. By a 98–101 teller vote, the House Feb. 1 defeated an amendment offered by G.V.
Montgomery (D Miss.) to strike from Title II – the anti-garnishment title – the introductory statement of purpose.
7/2/09 1:29 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283573&type=hitlist&num=1
Montgomery said the point of his amendment was “to eliminate” the title from HR 11601. The title, he said, “will
supersede most of the state laws that we have today.”
The title restricted garnishment of a worker's wages to 10 percent of his income above $30 a week. Thus, a wage-
earner who brought home $100 a week could have only $7 of the sum garnished to pay his debts. During debate
Republicans and Southern Democrats opposed the provision on grounds that such laws were the province of state
governments.
The amendment was opposed by Mrs. Sullivan and other members of the Committee. “Garnishment is a successor
to debtors' prison,” she said.
Credit Rating Systems. The House, also by voice vote, rejected an amendment adding a new title to HR 11601.
The amendment, proposed by Clement J. Zablocki (D Wis.), authorized regulation of nationwide credit rating systems.
Credit rating companies, which were increasing in number and size, had been subject to growing criticism for
various reasons. Critics said the companies indiscriminately collected information about consumers, frequently
added improper or irrelevant information to consumers' files, did not adequately check-out or follow through on
information supplied and refused to show consumers the contents of files on them. These practices, critics said,
frequently led to poor credit ratings for consumers – often without justification – and prevented adversely affected
persons from defending themselves.
The amendment was opposed by several members who felt that the amendment would leave merchants who deny
credit to customers open to law suits from disgruntled consumers.
Amendments Accepted
Jan. 31 – William B. Widnall (R N.J.) – Require creditors offering installment plans to disclose to customers on each
monthly bill form the credit costs and terms which were disclosed at the time the contract was drawn. Voice vote.
H. Allen Smith (R Calif.) – Permit the disclosure of cost, terms, and other requirements in the case of certain
installment purchases to be made before the first payment (rather than at the actual time of each purchase) if the
customer previously has agreed to the annual interest charge and the method of computing the finance charge and
if the seller retains no right to repossess the merchandise. Voice.
Richard H. Poff (R Va.) – Declare the finding of Congress  that organized crime is engaged in interstate
commerce through loan sharking operations and provide that anyone participating in such activities in excess of
limits set by state and local usury laws is subject to federal penalties of $10,000 or imprisonment for five years or
both and to other penalties. Roll call, 383–5.
William T. Cahill (R N.J.) – Four amendments to: (1) clarify the term “creditor” under the bill's provisions; (2) require
clear disclosure and description by a creditor to a customer of the terms and nature of any security interest to be
held against payment of a debt; (3) require notification by a creditor to a customer of any plan to require a home
mortgage as security to be made at least three days before the credit contract is closed; and (4) require full
disclosure by all parties involved in such an extended mortgage contract. Voice.
Feb. 1 – Byron G. Rogers (D Colo.) – Delete provision under Title II directing the Labor Secretary to set regulations
and levy penalties to carry out the anti-garnishment section of the bill. Voice.
Amendments Rejected
Jan. 31 – Chalmers P. Wylie (R Ohio) – Permit credit costs to be expressed in terms of dollars and cents until Jan. 1,
1970. Standing vote, 38–78.
Robert G. Stephens (D Ga.) – Provide an effective date for the bill of July 1, 1969 (rather than nine months after
enactment, as in the Committee bill). Voice.
Wylie – Require disclosure of credit costs only by a monthly rate. Voice.
Lawrence G. Williams (R Pa.) – Provide that newspaper publishers and other media owners be liable to the same
penalties as creditors for violation of the credit advertising regulations set forth in the bill. Standing, 42–51.
Feb. 1 – G.V. Montgomery (D Miss.) – Strike introductory language in Title II, (wage garnishment restriction). Teller,
98–101.
Byron G. Rogers (D Colo.) – Delete criminal penalties for an employer who discharged a worker for being involved in
one wage garnishment arrangement. Voice.
Louis C. Wyman (R N.H.) – Strike language in Title II prohibiting state courts from proceeding in garnishment cases
under state law. Teller, 87–102.
John M. Ashbrook (R Ohio) – Delete Title III authorizing establishment of a National Commission on Consumer
Finance. Voice.
Clement J. Zablocki (D Wis.) – Add a new title regulating the practices of computerized, national credit rating services
7/2/09 1:29 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 9 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283573&type=hitlist&num=1
and requiring disclosure, upon request, to a customer of the credit rating assigned to him. Voice.
Conference Action
Senate-House conferees were deadlocked over the bill for several months, largely because of disagreement about
the revolving-credit provisions. Agreement was reached in May and a conference report (H Rept 1397) filed May 20.
Following are major actions taken.
Disclosure Requirements. The House and Senate were largely in agreement on these provisions with the
exception of the revolving credit section (see below). The sections were rewritten by the conferees, however, to take
account of compromises on minor points.
In one change, conferees agreed to allow disclosure of the annual percentage rate as required by the bill to be
stated in dollars per hundred until Jan. 1, 1971. The Senate had allowed this until Jan. 1, 1972, but the House had
made no exemption at all.
Revolving Credit. Conferees required disclosure of interest rates on all revolving charge accounts on both an
annual and monthly basis (such as 18 percent a year and 1 1/2 percent a month). In addition, the bill gave stores
the option of disclosing an “effective” interest rate to be calculated by dividing total annual income from revolving
credit by annual earnings from interest rates on revolving accounts. This meant a store which earned $100,000 in
interest on revolving charge accounts that took in a total of $1 million from those accounts could indicate an
“effective” interest rate of 10 percent. As a result of this provision, a monthly department-store bill for a revolving
charge account might show three different interest rates.
Garnishment. The conference bill imposed for the first time a federal limit on garnishment of wages to satisfy debt.
This provision was to supersede all less restrictive state laws. The compromise bill contained a garnishment
provision somewhat less strict than the one approved by the House. The Senate bill did not incorporate a
garnishment section.
“Loan Sharking.” The compromise measure also prohibited the “extortionate extension of credit,” originally
contained in the House bill as an amendment prohibiting loan sharking. The “extortionate extention of credit” was
defined as the extension of credit with the understanding of both parties that force or violence or harassment was to
be used to force collection of the debt. Cases in which certain conditions were proven, including an interest rate of
more than 45 percent annually, were established as prima facie offenses and were subject to penalties of $10,000
or fines and/or 20 years imprisonment.
Credit Advertising. Conferees required disclosure of the annual interest rate in all credit advertising that mentioned
terms. Thus, an ad was permitted to read “easy credit,” but if it offered credit at “$1 down, $1 a week,” the annual
interest rate had to be included.
Credit Life Insurance. Conferees required disclosure of the cost of credit life insurance if it was included in the
finance charge of a loan and if the insurance had to be purchased as a condition precedent to obtaining credit.
First Mortgages. Conferees eliminated a House provision requiring the disclosure of total finance costs over the life
of a first mortgage. Mortgage lenders opposed this provision because home buyers frequently pay as much or more
in interest as they do for the house itself. Instead, the disclosure of the “true” annual interest rate was required, a
practice already followed by most mortgage lenders.
Second Mortgages. Conferees accepted a Republican-sponsored House floor amendment aimed at combating
fraudulent second mortgage practices which had bilked many low-income persons in recent years. The amendment
required that a person who signs an agreement involving a second mortgage or lien on his home as security for a
purchase or home improvement project be told exactly what he was signing. In addition, he was given three days to
unconditionally cancel the agreement. The House provision required that the person be given the disclosures
required by the bill three days before the agreement was signed. This would have given the homeowner three days
to think about the deal and required the seller to return to the home-owner; under the conference bill, the home-
owner had to return to the seller to cancel the agreement.
$10 Exemption. Some small finance charges were exempted from the general disclosure requirements, as a
compromise between the Senate exemption of all cases where the charges were $10 or less and the House bill
which did not provide this exception.
National Commission on Consumer Finance. Conferees adopted a House provision creating a bipartisan
Commission and directed that it make a continuing study of consumer finance and report its findings to Congress.
It was given a lease on life until 1971.
Document Citation
"Congress Enacts Strong Truth-In-Lending Law." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal68-1283573.
Originally published in CQ Almanac 1968 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1969).
http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal68-1283573 (accessed July 2, 2009).
7/2/09 1:29 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 10 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283573&type=hitlist&num=1
Document ID: cqal68-1283573
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal68-1283573
© 1969, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
