7/2/09 1:37 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283833&type=hitlist&num=0
Federal, Subsidized or Low
Income Housing
1998 Three Years of Negotiations Yield
a Housing Bill That Compromise
Built
1997 No Consensus on Housing
Overhaul
1996 Public Housing Overhaul Bill Dies
1995 Bills Seek to Revamp Public
Housing
1994 HUD Gains Greater Leeway On
Property Disposals
1993 Low-Income Housing Measure
Clears
1991 No Agreement Reached On
Housing Funds
1991 Juggling the Demands of Space
and Housing
1976 Housing Bill: Public Housing
Program Revived
1974 First Major Housing Bill Since
1968 Enacted
1973 Administration Housing
Moratorium Comes Under Fire
1972 Low-Income Housing
1972 Housing Probe
1969 Housing Hearings
1968 Housing Bill Provides Home-
Buying, Riot, Other Aid
1967 U.S. Low-Income Housing Efforts
Stir Controversy
1965 Major Housing Legislation
Enacted
Housing Appropriations
Military and Veterans' Education,
Employment and Housing
Housing  Bill Provides Home-Buying, Riot,
Other Aid
An article from CQ Almanac 1968
Document Outline
Provisions
Background
Senate
Provisions
House
Provisions
Conference
Features
Congress July 26 cleared an Administration-backed bill (S 3497) providing
one of the most far-reaching housing  and urban  developments
programs ever enacted by Congress.
S 3497, the Housing  and Urban Development Act  of 1968,
authorized a $5.3 billion, three-year housing  program designed to provide
more than 1.7 million units of new and rehabilitated housing  for low-
income families. Major new programs authorized by the measure included
federal subsidies to help the poor buy their own homes and rent apartments,
federal underwriting of the insurance industry against riot losses, flood
insurance for homeowners and new urban  renewal programs. The bill
also extended and expanded a number of existing housing  programs,
including the innovative rent supplement and model cities programs enacted
by the 89th Congress.
The bill, which was expected to become one of the landmark legislative
achievements of President Johnson's Administration, was the first step toward
the President's goal of 6 million units of new or rehabilitated housing  to
replace substandard housing  units during the next 10 years. The 10-year
goal was announced by Mr. Johnson in a Feb. 22 message to Congress on
the cities, in which he requested many of the programs which gained
approval in S 3497.
If fully funded by Congress, the eventual price tag of the measure would
greatly exceed $5.3 billion. This represented only the three-year cost of the
bill, which included many programs that authorized contracts running as long as 40 years.
Homeownership, Rental Assistance. Highlights of the bill were the homeownership and rental aid programs, both
of which went through Congress with surprisingly little controversy.
The homeownership plan, originated by Republicans in 1967 but substantially modified by housing  officials
before the Administration endorsed it in 1968, was designed to enable low-income families to purchase their own
homes by providing a federal subsidy that could bring down the effective interest cost of the purchaser's home
mortgage. The subsidy would amount to the difference between 20 percent of the family's monthly income and the
required monthly payment under the mortgage for principal, interest, taxes, insurance and mortgage insurance
premium. In every case, however, the purchaser would be required to make payments at least equal to the payment
that would be required if the mortgage were made at a rate of 1 percent.
Eligibility for the homeowner's program generally would be limited to families with annual incomes of $3,000 to
$6,500, but exceptions would be made for highcost areas and unusually large families. In general, the maximum
mortgage permitted under the program would be $15,000. The plan was programmed to aid 500,000 families over
the next three years.
Under the bill's new rental assistance program, lowincome families would be aided indirectly by federal subsidies on
the mortgage interest costs of apartment projects sponsored by nonprofit organizations. The subsidy would amount
 
7/2/09 1:37 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283833&type=hitlist&num=0
Summary of Action on S 3497
S 3497—Reported by Senate Banking and
Currency Committee (S Rept 1123) May
15, 1968.
S 3497—Passed, amended, by a 67–4
roll-call vote of the Senate May 28, 1968.
(See vote 132, p. 30-S.)
HR 17989—Reported by House Banking
and Currency Committee (H Rept 1585)
June 25, 1968.
HR 17989—Passed, amended, by a 295–
114 rollcall vote of the House July 10,
1968. (See vote 129, p. 58-H)
S 3497—Passed, amended, by voice vote
of the House July 10, 1968.
S 3497—Conference report (H Rept 1785)
agreed to by a voice vote of the Senate
July 25, 1968 and a 227–135 roll-call vote
of the House July 26, 1968. (See vote
160, p. 72-H.)
PL 90-448—Signed into law Aug. 1.
the mortgage interest costs of apartment projects sponsored by nonprofit organizations. The subsidy would amount
to the difference between the market rate mortgage and the amount required on a mortgage bearing an interest rate
of 1 percent. The interest savings to the sponsor would be passed on to the tenants in lower rents. The income
eligibility requirements for the program were identical to those for the homeownership plan.
When fully operational, the homeownership and rental aid programs
would replace the existing program of assistance to apartment
construction through below market interest rate (BMIR) mortgages
under Section 221(d)(3) of the National Housing Act . The
BMIR program required support from the Federal National
Mortgage Assn. (FNMA), which bought up the low-interest
mortgages as part of its special assistance function.
In general, the new programs would aid poorer families than those
currently assisted under Section 221 (d)(3)—a program designed to
aid moderate- as well as low-income families. In addition, it was
thought the shift to direct interest subsidies would lead to a larger
program by attracting private enterprise into the lowincome 
housing  field. (The BMIR program was limited to the amount of
funds FNMA could commit to buy up mortgages; although the
Government eventually got back all but the interest differential, vast
amounts of federal money constantly were tied up under the
program.) Both the House and Senate Committee reports on S
3497 emphasized that it would be impossible to meet the goals
envisioned by the bill without a substantial commitment of funds
from the private mortgage market.
Debate on the homeownership and rental aid issues skirted the
establishment of the programs themselves and centered on the
income levels of the persons to be assisted. The Administration
proposed that the Secretary of Housing  and Urban
Development  (HUD) be given the authority to set income limits
for eligibility under the programs, with the understanding that the
limits would follow those currently used in the below-market interest
rate program. Opposition developed in both chambers, however, as
Members feared that the programs would not reach the families
most in need of assistance. The final bill limited eligibility generally
to families whose incomes were no greater than 35 percent above the local income limits for initial occupancy of
public housing —a level well below the limits of the BMIR program.
Other Provisions. The bill also required the Federal Housing  Administration (FHA) to provide greater
opportunities for obtaining FHA insurance on properties in declining urban  areas and to make such insurance
more available to home buyers who can not meet ordinary credit standards but are deemed by the Government as
satisfactory risks. To cover losses under the program, the bill provided a new high risk insurance fund, which was to
be financed with federal appropriations.
Another new program established by the measure authorized federal assistance to developers of entire new towns
and new communities. The provision authorized the HUD Secretary to guarantee an aggregate of $250 million of
bonds and other obligations issued by private developers of such projects. The bill also authorized supplemental
federal grants for public facilities built in new communities in which the developer promised to build a substantial
number of housing  units for low- and moderate-income families. A program embodying the same objectives
was approved by Congress as part of the 1966 Demonstration Cities Act ; however, the 1966 plan required
developers to secure funds from private lenders (which then would be insured by FHA) instead of empowering them
to issue the federally insured bonds—an easier means of financing. In addition, the 1966 program did not provide
the supplemental financing for public facilities, (1966 Almanac p. 210)
Another major innovation provided by S 3497 was a federal reinsurance program to provide the private insurance
industry with reinsurance against riot losses and to encourage programs to increase the availability of insurance in
ghetto areas. The bill also included a program to make flood insurance available to homeowners. The flood
insurance provisions were similar to a flood insurance bill (S 1985) passed by the Senate in 1967. (See 1967
Almanac p. 1034.)
In a broad departure from existing urban  renewal law, the bill provided a new renewal program designed to
allow for short-term redevelopment projects. The new plan, called the neighborhood development  program,
provided for planning and carrying out projects on an annual basis. Existing law required detailed and
comprehensive planning covering several years.
In its other important features, the bill provided prospective land purchasers a measure of protection from fraud,
broadened the lending power of savings and loan institutions, authorized FHA mortgage insurance on vacation
homes, and established new programs of federal assistance for college housing  and mortgage insurance for
nonprofit hospitals. The bill also provided a number of new spending authorizations for existing programs, including
$1 billion for the model cities program in fiscal 1970, $40 million in additional 40-year contract authority for the rent
supplement program in 1970, $100 million more in rent supplement contracts for fiscal 1971, and an additional $265
7/2/09 1:37 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283833&type=hitlist&num=0
supplement program in 1970, $100 million more in rent supplement contracts for fiscal 1971, and an additional $265
million in grants for water and sewer facilities in fiscal 1969 and 1970.
Provisions
As sent to the President, S 3497:
Stated that the highest priority and emphasis should be given to providing decent housing  for lower income
families and that in carrying out such programs the resources of private enterprise and individual self-help
techniques should be used as fully as possible.
Required that to the “greatest extent feasible,” employment arising from these programs be given to lower income
persons residing in the area of such projects. Also required, to the greatest extent feasible, that contracts for work
under these programs be awarded to business concerns located in or owned in substantial part by persons residing
in the area of the projects.
Stated that emphasis should be given to encouraging good design as an essential component of low- and
moderate-income housing .
Title I—Lower Income Housing
Established a homeownership assistance program for low- and moderate-income families based on an interest rate
subsidy. Stipulated that mortgages for housing  purchased under the program would be made at market rates of
interest and that the Government would pay the interest subsidy directly to the institution making the loans.
Established the following income limits for eligibility under the program: for 80 percent of program funds,
participation was to be limited to families whose income was not more than 35 percent higher than the income
ceiling for admission to public housing  in the area, plus an additional $300 for each minor child. For the
remaining 20 percent of program funds, participation was to be limited to families whose income was not more than
90 percent of the area's income ceiling for the below market interest rate (BMIR) loan program, plus $300 per minor
child. Under both the 80 percent and 20 percent provisions, however, the Secretary of the Department of Housing
 and Urban Development  (HUD) was directed to give preference to the lowest income families for whom
homeownership was practicable.
Set the amount of subsidy under the program at the difference between 20 percent of the family's monthly income
and the required monthly payment under the mortgage for principal, interest, taxes, insurance and mortgage
insurance premium. Required, however, that the purchaser make payments at least equal to the payment that would
be required if the mortgage were made at a 1 percent rate. Permitted participating families to deduct $300 per minor
child from family income for purposes of determining monthly payments as well as income eligibility.
Required a downpayment of $200 for participating families whose incomes were less than 35 percent above public 
housing  income eligibility limits and required a 3 percent downpayment for all other families.
Set a general limitation on the amount of a mortgage taken out under the program at $15,000, with higher
mortgages allowed for high cost areas and for larger families.
Required that a participant's income be recertified at least every two years and that appropriate adjustments in the
assistnace payment be made to reflect any changes.
Limited assistance under the program generally to new and rehabilitated housing  but provided exceptions for
large families, families displaced by governmental action and some other fammilies.
Authorized FHA insurance of mortgages and mortgage payment subsidies for the purchase of housing  by
nonprofit sponsors or public agencies for subsequent resale to low- or moderate-income home purchasers. (This
program was designed to gradually replace the 221(h) program, often called the Sullivan amendment. (For 221(h)
program, see p. 319.)
Authorized the Department of Housing  and Urban Development  (HUD) to provide counseling on care of a
home and budgeting of income for persons assisted under the program.
Authorized contracts for annual homeownership assistance payments aggregating not more than $75 million in fiscal
1969, $175 million in fiscal 1970, and $300 million in subsequent fiscal years.
Established a new program to make FHA home mortgage insurance available to low-income families who could not
qualify for such insurance under existing FHA programs because of their credit histories or irregular income patterns
but whom the Department of HUD considered satisfactory risks and capable of homeownership with the assistance
of counseling.
Gave the FHA more flexible authority to provide financing for the repair, rehabilitation, construction or purchase of
property located in older, declining urban  areas which may not meet normal eligibility requirements.
Established a Special Risk Insurance Fund to insure mortgages under the above programs and under assistance for
rental and cooperative housing  (see Title II, below). Authorized appropriations to the fund to cover any losses.
7/2/09 1:37 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283833&type=hitlist&num=0
rental and cooperative housing  (see Title II, below). Authorized appropriations to the fund to cover any losses.
(The Fund was not expected to be operated on an actuarily sound basis.)
Authorized the Secretary of HUD to provide nonprofit sponsors of low- and moderate-income housing  with
technical assistance and interest-free loans to cover certain preconstruction costs.
Created a National Homeownership Foundation (a government chartered private nonprofit corporation) to provide
technical and limited financial assistance to public and private organizations providing lower income housing .
Authorized the FHA to insure mortgages on large-scale experimental housing  projects for lower income families
under such programs as homeownership assistance, rent supplements and 221(d)(3).
Authorized the Secretary of HUD, in cooperation with the private insurance industry, to develop a plan to provide
insurance to help homeowners meet mortgage payments in periods of personal economic adversity.
Established a National Advisory Commission on Low-Income Housing .
Title II—Rental Housing  for Lower Income Families
Established a new program of subsidies for the construction or rehabilitation of rental and cooperative housing
by nonprofit sponsors for low-income families. Provided for federal assistance payments to cover the difference
between the market rate mortgage and the amount that would be required on a mortgage bearing an interest rate of
1 percent. (This program, when fully in operation, was intended to replace the Section 221(d)(3) below-market
interest rate program which relied on support from the special assistance funds of the Federal National Mortgage
Assn. (FNMA) rather than subsidies on market rate mortgages.)
Provided that tenants in projects built under this program pay 25 percent of their income as rent up to the full market
rental. Required that rental charges collected in excess of the basic charges (calculated on the basis of a 1-percent
mortgage) be returned to the Department of HUD. Provided income eligibility limits identical to those under the Title I
homeownership assistance program.
Authorized contracts for annual interest assistance payments of not more than $75 million in fiscal 1969, $175
million in fiscal 1970, and $300 million in subsequent fiscal years.
Authorized new annual contract authority for the rent supplement program of $40 million in fiscal 1970 and $100
million in fiscal 1971. (The cumulative authorization for the rent supplement program through fiscal 1969 was $150
million of which $42 million had been appropriated.)
Extended assistance under the rent supplement program to projects financed under state or local programs. Existing
law limited eligibility to projects financed with federal assistance.
Increased authorization for annual contribution contract authority for the low-rent public housing  program by
$100 million upon enactment and $150 million in fiscal 1969 and 1970.
Authorized the Department of HUD to enter into grant contracts of up to a total of $45 million through fiscal 1970
with local housing  authorities to assist them in upgrading their management and providing tenant services.
Stipulated that high-rise elevator projects could not be approved for low-rent public housing  for families with
children unless there was “no practical alternative.”
Title III — Federal Housing  Administration Insurance Operations
Tightened regulations affecting default on FHA-insured multi-family housing  mortgages.
Permitted the Secretary of HUD to insure supplemental loans to finance improvements to multifamily rental projects
(including nursing homes and housing  for the elderly) and group medical practice facilities financed with an
FHA-insured mortgage.
Authorized the FHA to insure mortgages on seasonal homes on an “acceptable risk” basis. Limited the amount of
such mortgages to the lower of $15,000 or 75 percent of appraised value.
Title IV — New Community Land Development
Authorized the Secretary of HUD to guarantee the bonds, debentures, notes and other obligations issued by private
developers to help finance the development  of entire new towns or new communities.
Set ceilings of $50 million on the guarantee of any single new development  and $250 million in aggregate
outstanding obligations.
Authorized supplemental grants of up to 20 percent of the required local cost of federal grant programs to states and
localities for assisting new communities with basic water and sewer and open-space land projects. Required,
however, that communities using such grants make available a “substantial number” of housing  units for low-
and moderate-income families as part of the development .
Stipulated that total federal assistance for any facility aided under the supplemental grant program (including the
7/2/09 1:37 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283833&type=hitlist&num=0
Stipulated that total federal assistance for any facility aided under the supplemental grant program (including the
normal federal grant and the supplemental grant) could not exceed 80 percent of the total facility cost. Authorized
appropriation of up to $5 million in supplemental grants for fiscal 1969 and up to $25 million for fiscal 1970.
Title V — Urban  Renewal
Authorized a new program of financial assistance to local public agencies for “neighborhood development
programs” under which urban  renewal projects were to be planned and carried out on an annual basis.
(Existing urban  renewal programs required detailed and comprehensive plans covering several years.)
Authorized $1.4 billion for the urban  renewal program in fiscal 1970.
Authorized an additional $350 million for urban  renewal projects in model city areas.
Removed existing limitations on the acquisition and rehabilitation of residential properties by a local urban
renewal agency. (This limitation reportedly had led to the destruction of salvageable housing  and the
construction of more expensive housing  to replace it.)
Authorized the Secretary of HUD to make grants for the demolition of nonresidential structures that are harborages
for rats.
Limited rehabilitation loans generally to borrowers whose incomes were within the local income eligibility limits for
assistance under the below market interest rate loan program.
Authorized grants of up to $15 million a year to provide interim assistance to blighted areas where substantial
permanent clearance or rehabilitation is planned but not yet under way.
Broadened rehabilitation loan programs to permit loans to be made outside urban  renewal and code
enforcement areas and to bring property up to insurance underwriting standards.
Required that a majority of housing  units provided in each community's total residential urban  renewal
projects be for low- and moderate-income families and that at least 20 percent of the units in a project be for low-
income families. Permitted the Secretary to waive the 20 percent provision when he determined it was not
necessary.
Title VI — Urban  Planning And Facilities
Authorized a new category of assistance for “district” planning in rural and other areas outside of metropolitan areas.
Stipulated that such districts were to include all or part of at least one county and of at least one other general-
purpose unit of government, but not any part of a metropolitan area.
Increased the authorization for the overall urban  planning grants program by $35 million in fiscal 1969 and
$125 million in fiscal 1970. Specifically earmarked $20 million of the fiscal 1969 authorization and $10 million of the
fiscal 1970 authorization for district planning grants.
Extended to the new rural district planning areas eligibility to receive bonus grants of up to an additional 20 percent
of project costs under numerous federal grant programs when the HUD Secretary determined that such areas were
practicing comprehensive areawide planning. (Existing law. Section 205 of the 1966 Demonstration Cities and
Metropolitan Development Act , limited such assistance to metropolitan areas.) Also continued through fiscal
1970 the availability of the $75 million authorized for the program for fiscal 1967 and 1968 but denied by Congress
in appropriations acts for those two fiscal years.
Provided that any funds authorized but not appropriated through fiscal 1969 for basic water and sewer facilities,
neighborhood facilities and advance acquisition of land remain available through fiscal 1970. Raised the
authorization for water and sewer facilities from $200 million to $350 million in fiscal 1969 and provided an
authorization of $115 million for the program in fiscal 1970.
Authorized an additional $150 million for fiscal 1970.
Title VII — Urban  Mass Transportation
Authorized $190 million for fiscal 1970.
Permitted private transit companies to furnish up to 50 percent of the local share of the project cost of a mass
transit project, and up to 100 percent in some cases.
Extended for 20 months, through July 1, 1970, the emergency grant program for mass transportation under which
requirements that full areawide planning be completed were waived.
Title VIII — Secondary Mortgage Market
Partitioned the Federal National Mortgage Assn. (FNMA) into two corporations: the Government National Mortgage
Assn. (GNMA) and a privately owned Federal National Mortgage Assn. (FNMA).
7/2/09 1:37 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283833&type=hitlist&num=0
Provided that the GNMA would operate special assistance and management and liquidating functions and would be
administered by the Department of HUD.
Authorized an increase of $500 million in special assistance authority, available July 1, 1969, primarily for the
purchase by the GNMA of below-market interest rate mortgages under the 221(d)(3) program.
Provided that the new FNMA would operate a privately financed secondary mortgage market for government
supported mortgages under general regulation of the Secretary of HUD.
Provided for retiring the current federal capital contribution to the FNMA and transferring control to common
stockholders.
Provided new forms of borrowing authority for the FNMA.
Title IX–National Housing  Partnerships
Authorized the creation of federally-chartered, privately funded corporations to plan and carry out the building or
rehabilitation of housing  for low- and moderate-income families.
Authorized such a corporation to form a national partnership as its vehicle for participating in the provision of low-
income housing .
Authorized the national partnership created by the corporation to enter into partnerships, limited partnerships or joint
ventures with local builders and investors for the purpose of building low- and moderate-income housing .
Title X-Rural Housing
Authorized direct and insured loans with interest rate subsidies to provide housing  for low- and moderate-
income families in rural areas who are not able to obtain housing  under the homeownership or subsidized
rental and cooperative housing  programs set up under Titles I and II.
Authorized a new program of grants and loans for “self-help” housing  in rural areas.
Title XI– Urban  Property Protection And Reinsurance
Authorized the Secretary of HUD to set up a program to reinsure insurance companies against property losses
resulting from riots or civil disorders. The program was to be terminated in 1976.
Established the new post of Federal Insurance Administrator to administer, under supervision of the HUD Secretary,
both the reinsurance program and the flood insurance program established under Title XIII.
Required the Secretary to set reinsurance premiums that would provide an aggregate fund in excess of the
estimated amount of insured riot losses during 1967.
Specified that reinsurance would not be offered in states which did not provide, within a specified time, for sharing
some of the costs to the Federal Government of covering reinsured losses.
Required insurers reinsured under the program to cooperate with state insurance authorities in establishing and
carrying out statewide plans to assure fair access to insurance requirements (FAIR plans). (These plans were
designed to ensure that property owners were not denied insurance solely because of the area in which their
property was located.)
Provided that state FAIR plans be administered under the supervision of the state insurance authority.
Set minimum requirements for FAIR plans including:
Property insurance may not be denied without inspection of the property.
Insurers declining a risk or agreeing to provide coverage only if the property was improved must provide property
owners with a statement of reasons for refusal of coverage or improvements required for coverage.
Required state plans to include an all-industry placement facility to help agents and brokers to place insurance up to
the full insurable value of a property.
Authorized the Secretary to modify the criteria for state plans.
Authorized the Secretary of the HUD Department to borrow up to $250 million from the Treasury to pay reinsurance
claims in excess of the aggregate amount of reinsurance premiums received under the program. (The program was
expected to be generally self-supporting.)
Directed the Secretary to study means of assuring an adequate supply of burglary and theft insurance.
Title XII–District Of Columbia Insurance Placement Act
7/2/09 1:37 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283833&type=hitlist&num=0
Authorized the Commissioner of the District of Columbia to establish a joint underwriting association to provide
insurance or reinsurance of basic property without regard to environmental hazards. Authorized both federal
assistance and an increase in insurance premiums to cover losses.
Title XIII–National Flood Insurance
Gave the Secretary of HUD authority to set up a program of flood insurance as a joint federal-private venture and
permitted the Secretary to establish an all-federal program in the event that a joint program was not feasible.
Provided that subsidized personal and property insurance would be made available for flood damage to one- to four-
family houses and to small business properties in flood-prone areas. Specified that insurance would be available
only in states which “evidenced a positive interest” in flood insurance and adopted land use and control regulations
before June 30, 1970, to prevent unwise use of flood-prone land.
Established a 15-member Flood Insurance Advisory Committee to assist the HUD Secretary in determining the
scope of the program, the premiums to be charged and how the program should be operated. Specified the
following maximum liabilities eligible for rates below actuarial cost (subsidized premiums): $17,500 for a one-family
dwelling; $30,000 for a multiple-unit dwelling; $5,000 for the contents of each unit; $30,000 for a business structure
and $5,000 for the contents of each business unit.
Directed the Secretary to encourage private insurers to form a pool to sell and service flood insurance and to share
profits and liabilities. Limited insurance outstanding at any time to $2.5 billion.
Authorized the Secretary to make premium equalization payments to the insurers' pool to make up the difference
between below-cost premiums paid and the actuarial cost of the insurance. Pledged the Federal Government to
back up the private firms by paying any claims in excess of the financial capacity of the privately financed pool.
Directed the Secretary, with other federal agencies, to identify flood zones according to declining risk of disaster
and, within five years after enactment, to establish a set of actuarial flood insurance premiums based on the flood-
zone statistics.
Created a National Flood Insurance Fund in the Treasury Department and gave the HUD Secretary borrowing
authority of up to $250 million. Rescinded existing authority for Congress to appropriate any amounts the President
deemed necessary for flood control. Specified that the Fund would be used to pay premium subsidies to the
insurance pool and reinsurance claims when the pool suffered excessive losses. Authorized appropriations to
reimburse the Treasury for payments from the Fund.
Authorized the Secretary to develop comprehensive criteria for state and local planning and regulations of land use
in flood-prone areas.
Title XIV–Interstate Land Sales
Required that persons selling subdivided undeveloped land in interstate commerce or through the mails file a
statement with the HUD Department giving certain required information. Information required included the title of the
land, its physical nature, and the availability of roads and utilities.
Required that prospective purchasers be furnished with a property report based on the statement and approved by
the HUD Department.
Exempted subdivisions of fewer than 50 lots or with lots of more than five acres each.
Authorized the Secretary of HUD to sue for injunctions against violations of this title.
Established criminal penalties of up to $5,000 fine and/or five years imprisonment for violations. Also provided for
civil liabilities against persons selling or leasing lots in violation of this title.
Title XV–Nonprofit Hospitals Mortgage Insurance
Authorized a new program of FHA mortgage insurance for nonprofit hospitals.
Provided that mortgages could be made for constructing a new hospital, rehabilitating an existing hospital or
covering the cost of major items of equipment. Limited the aggregate amount of such mortgages that could be
outstanding at one time to $20 million.
Title XVI–Ten-Year Housing  Goal
Stated that the national housing  goal of “a decent home…for every American family” should be “substantially
achieved” within ten years by the construction or rehabilitation of 26 million units, 6 million of which would be for
low- and moderate-income families.
Required the President to make a report to Congress on or before Jan. 15, 1969, setting forth a 10-year plan to
meet national housing  needs, together with legislative recommendations for carrying out his plan. Also required
the President to make annual reports during each of the 10 years, comparing results for the previous year with the
goals set forth in the plan for that year.
7/2/09 1:37 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283833&type=hitlist&num=0
Required the Secretary of HUD to report annually to the President on the progress in achieving this goal and to
recommend any legislative and administrative measures necessary.
Title XVII–Miscellaneous
Authorized $1 billion for the model cities program for fiscal 1970. Authorized $12 million for model cities planning
grants in fiscal 1969.
Authorized grants for demonstration projects on the prevention of urban  blight to be made to nonprofit
organizations (in addition to public agencies under existing law). Increased the authorization for the program from
$10 million to $20 million.
Provided a new program of federal assistance for college housing  to supplement the existing direct loan
program. Authorized annual grants to cover the difference between the interest an educational institution is required
to pay on borrowings from private sources, and interest on a direct federal loan (currently 3 percent).
Authorized $10 million in annual contracts in fiscal 1969 and an additional $10 million in fiscal 1970 for the new
college housing  program.
Authorized appointment of an additional HUD Assistant Secretary with particular responsibilities in the field of 
urban  research and development .
Extended a program of grants to the states to help them provide urban  information and technical assistance to
communities of less than 100,000 population. Authorized $5 million for fiscal 1969 and $15 million for fiscal 1970.
Provided that savings and loan institutions be given broader lending power, including authority to lend for seasonal
homes and for home appliances under certain conditions, and that the Federal Home Loan Bank Board be given
greater authority to ensure prompt payment of withdrawals to savers.
Background
REFERENCES–For low-rent public housing , see Congress and the Nation p. 465, 1965 Almanac p. 359. For
federally subsidized low- and moderate-income housing , see Congress and the Nation p. 465; 1967 Almanac p.
488, 1965 Almanac p. 359. For rent supplements, see 1965 Almanac p. 358, 1966 Almanac p. 254, 1967 Almanac p.
469.
Two agencies at HUD are charged specifically with aiding low- and moderate-income families to obtain decent 
housing . They are the Housing  Assistance Administration (HAA) and the Federal Housing  Administration
(FHA).
HAA Programs
The HAA is the successor to the old Public Housing  Administration, established by the Housing Act  of
1937, which authorized the low-rent public housing  program to provide homes for those who could not afford
decent housing  without Government assistance. HAA, in addition to its low-rent public housing  activities,
administers a direct loan program to provide rental housing  for the elderly of moderate income.
Public Housing . The basic HAA program, public housing , has resulted in the establishment of 2,200 local
public housing  authorities. Since 1937 these local agencies have built 680,000 low-rent units. The median
income for those occupying this housing  is about $2,700, according to HUD officials, although each housing
 authority establishes its own eligibility limits.
The bulk of all public housing  is provided through the construction by local housing  authorities of public 
housing  projects. Each authority receives an annual subsidy from the Federal Government to keep rents in the
projects low enough to provide housing  for very poor persons.
Since the passage of the 1965 Housing Act , the HAA has put greater stress on rehabilitating existing 
housing  for use as low-rent public housing  than it has on new construction. The HAA claims that
rehabilitation can provide much needed housing  faster and more cheaply than new construction. Also,
rehabilitation avoids the project concept of public housing , which has been widely criticized for fostering racial
and economic segregation.
Turnkey–Another new approach to expanding the supply of low-rent housing  is the so-called turnkey method.
Under turnkey, local housing  authorities contract with private developers, builders and rehabilitators to buy,
upon completion, housing  they have built or rehabilitated. The turnkey method is designed to short-circuit the
lengthy delays that often occur when local authorities build housing  projects themselves.
Leasing–Another new approach, aimed at speeding up the process of increasing the public housing  inventory,
is the so-called “rent certificates” program which was approved in the 1965 Housing Act . Sponsored by Rep.
William B. Widnall (R N.J.), the top housing  expert among GOP Members of the House, the program permits
7/2/09 1:37 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 9 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283833&type=hitlist&num=0
local housing  authorities to lease private dwellings for low-income families. The federal contribution makes up
the difference in rent that the owner receives and the amount the tenant-occupant is able to pay. The leasing
program has been termed a way of providing “instant” housing  for poor families who are in acute need.
Housing  for Elderly or Handicapped. A final HAA program is long-term, low-interest loans to private,
nonprofit corporations to provide housing  for elderly or handicapped people of moderate income – defined as
those with incomes too high for public housing  but too low for the private housing  market.
FHA Programs
In addition to the HAA, federal assistance for housing  low- and moderate-income families is provided through
the FHA, the Government's primary guarantor of private mortgage loans. Created in 1934, FHA's chief function
through the years has been to provide basic mortgage insurance on the purchase of single homes and on rental 
housing . In recent years, FHA has been given jurisdiction over a number of special assistance housing
programs.
Section 221(d)(3). In 1961 the FHA was given the task of administering a new program of mortgage insurance,
known by the numerical designation, 221(d)(3), an amendment to the 1934 Housing Act . Section 221(d) (3)
authorized both a market-rate and a below-market-rate program. Under the latter, nonprofit organizations,
cooperatives and public agencies could borrow money from commercial sources, such as banks, at interest rates
below those generally prevailing in the housing  market for sponsorship of apartment developments for low- and
moderate-income families. The interest rate ranged from 3–7/8 to 4 percent. In 1965 the 221(d)(3) below-market
interest rate program became federally subsidized with a flat 3-percent rate.
In the case of the below-market interest rate program, the loans are insured by the FHA. The Federal National
Mortgage Assn. (FNMA) then buys the mortgage from the bank or other lender which normally agrees to the sale in
order to avoid tying up funds in low-interest loans. The net effect of the procedure is that FNMA advances money at
low interest rates for construction or rehabilitation of housing  for this program.
Rent Supplements. The key low-income program in FHA is the rent supplements program. This makes low-income
individuals and families who are either elderly, handicapped, displaced by Government action or occupants of
substandard housing  eligible for admission to FHA 221(d)(3), new or rehabilitated, housing  which is owned
by a private nonprofit, limited-dividend or cooperative mortgagor. The housing  owner enters into a 40-year
contract with HUD, which promises to pay federal rent supplements to eligible tenants of the housing .
The subsidy payments for any dwelling unit cannot be higher than the amount by which the fair market rental for
the unit exceeds 25 percent of the tenant's income. When the tenant has enough income to pay the full rent he may
continue to live in the same unit but without rent supplement payments. There are strict limits on the per-unit costs
of the rent supplement housing  that can be built.
Low-Income Sales Housing . The newest of FHA's special programs is 221(h), which was tacked onto the
1966 Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan Development Act  under the sponsorship of Rep. Leonor K. Sullivan
(D Mo.), and which is currently operating only on a pilot basis. Under 221(h), the FHA insures mortgages of
nonprofit organizations – church groups, nonprofit industry groups, antipoverty community action groups – to finance
the purchase and rehabilitation of deteriorating or substandard housing . The nonprofit groups then sell the
homes to individuals and families with incomes equivalent to or below the maximum income permitted for those
eligible for rent supplements or public housing . The interest rate on the mortgages for the original purchase by
the sponsor is 6 percent, but it goes down to 3 percent when the rehabilitated unit is sold to a low-income person
for the minimum $200 downpayment. The FNMA provides the interest subsidy.
1967–68 Developments
Congress in 1967 did not enact major housing  legislation despite months of deliberation by the Senate Banking
and Currency Committee on proposals to promote home ownership by low-income families. The Committee Nov. 28
reported a compromise bill (S 2700) providing federal subsidies to enable such families to purchase homes, but the
measure did not reach the Senate floor in 1967. As reported, S 2700 incorporated provisions of various bills
sponsored by Sens. Walter F. Mondale (D Minn.), Charles H. Percy (R Ill.), Joseph S. Clark (D Pa.) and Abraham A.
Ribicoff (D Conn.). The home ownership provisions of the measure were not formally endorsed by the Administration
in 1967. (For S 2700, see 1967 Almanac p. 492.)
In a special message to Congress on urban  problems, President Johnson Feb. 22 detailed his 1968 legislative
recommendations for housing  and other urban -aid programs. In addition to endorsing the home ownership
plan contained in S 2700, the President outlined other proposals designed to provide about 6 million housing
units for low- and moderate-income families over the next 10 years. The cornerstone of the President's proposed
program was the Housing  and Urban Development Act  of 1968, which was introduced March 4 (S 3029)
by Senate Banking and Currency Committee Chairman John J. Sparkman. (For text of Johnson message, see p. 54-
A.)
S 3029 called for a five-year, $7.5-billion program. With a few exceptions, it covered the same major areas as
covered by the final version of S 3497. S 3029 did not include provisions on riot and flood insurance and interstate
land sales, all of which were contained in the Senate Banking and Currency Committee's clean bill, S 3497. The
7/2/09 1:37 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 10 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283833&type=hitlist&num=0
land sales, all of which were contained in the Senate Banking and Currency Committee's clean bill, S 3497. The
Administration's request for a national insurance development  corporation to insure private insurance
companies against the risk of riots was included in another bill (S 3028) introduced March 4 by Sparkman. S 3029
contained a provision to remove the statutory ceilings on interest rates of mortgages insured by the FHA and the
Veterans Administration, but this was included in a separate bill (HR 10477) that cleared Congress April 30. (See p.
174.)
Senate
COMMITTEE-Senate Banking and Currency, Subcommittee on Housing  and Urban  Affairs; John J.
Sparkman (D Ala.), chairman.
HELD HEARINGS-March 5–7, 11–15, 18–22 on Administration-backed legislation dealing with housing  and 
urban  affairs, including S 3028 and S 3029. In addition to the major Administration proposals, about two dozen
other bills were considered by the Subcommittee.
TESTIMONY-March 5-HUD Secretary Robert C. Weaver urged the Subcommittee to approve both S 3029 and S
3028. “For all their importance, however,” Weaver said, “these two bills do not stand alone in answer to the needs
of American cities, nor can they be understood in isolation.” Other pending legislation was equally important, the
Secretary emphasized, to achieve the President's objectives in urban  affairs. Weaver specifically described the
following pending proposals as “crucial” to Mr. Johnson's urban -aid program: (1) the income-tax surcharge; (2)
open housing  legislation; (3) full funding for the antipoverty program and the model cities program; (4) funds for
placing 500,000 hardcore unemployed in private industry jobs within three years; and (5) “adequate funds” for rent
supplements, urban  research and “many other continuing programs on which the new proposals are
predicated.”
The 10-year housing  goal of the Johnson Administration, Weaver said, was the “building and rebuilding …of
enough good housing  to permit…replacement of substantially all substandard dwellings.” Specifically, the
Administration asked for federal support for 4 million new housing  units over a 10-year period, compared to
500,000 units aided by federal funds during the past decade. Federal aid in rehabilitating existing housing  was
needed for 2 million units in 10 years, he said, compared to 25,000 units aided during the past decade.
Weaver told the Subcommittee that these “large commitments and ambitious undertakings” would “strain the
capacities of all public and private organizations which must be involved,” but he added that the “risk is worthwhile
because the rewards of success are so important to our national life.“
Weaver strongly advocated enactment of the new program of mortgage payment subsidies to encourage home
ownership by low- and moderate-income families. The Administration plan, Weaver said, was based on “the
excellent work of this Committee last year” in shaping S 2700. Weaver's endorsement of the home ownership
subsidy plan was a contrast to the Administration's reluctance in 1967 to give formal support to a similar plan
proposed by Sen. Charles H. Percy (R III.). (The Percy proposal was incorporated in S 2700, as reported in 1967 by
the Banking and Currency Committee.)
In answer to a question about the housing  proposals made by the President's National Advisory Commission on
Civil Disorders, Weaver told William Proxmire (D Wis.) that implementation of the Commission's ambitious
recommendations was “improbable.” The Commission March 2 reported that 6 million new or rehabilitated housing
 units were needed within five years, compared to the Johnson Administration's 10-year timetable. (See Special
Report on Commission.)
Weaver testified again March 6 and 7.
March 11—Sen. Edward W. Brooke (R Mass.) said that “federal low- and moderate-income housing  programs
stand at the crossroads.” Brooke, who served on the National Advisory Commission on Civil Disorders, urged
favorable action on his own bill (S 2681) to create a separate division within the HUD Department to administer the
low- and moderate-income housing  programs. A new division was desirable, Brooke explained, because of “the
distinctive character of these programs” and “their special urgency.” Brooke in 1967 had criticized the FHA (which
currently was slated to administer the new housing  programs) for being overly cautious in its housing
commitments and not sufficiently responsive to “social-purpose legislation.” (1967 Almanac p. 489)
March 12—Andrew J. Biemiller, representing the AFL-CIO, endorsed S 3028 but said that “the immediate need is
for far more housing  than is envisioned” by the legislation. In the field of conventional public housing , for
example, Biemiller said the Administration's goal of 775,000 additional units over five years (including 75,000 in
fiscal 1969) should be almost tripled to at least 2.1 million units for the same period. “The long-neglected backlog of
need and current rate of deterioration” required an immediate level of 300,000 new starts in fiscal 1969, Biemiller
said.
The AFL-CIO rejected “totally” the Administration proposal to “eliminate the statutory ceiling (of) 6 percent…on FHA
interest rates.” If the ceiling were removed, Biemiller contended, “rates will go in one direction only.“
March 13—Edgar F. Kaiser, chairman of the 17-member President's Committee on Urban Housing ,
endorsed S 3029, the Housing  and Urban Development Act  of 1968. Enactment of the bill, Kaiser told the
7/2/09 1:37 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 11 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283833&type=hitlist&num=0
endorsed S 3029, the Housing  and Urban Development Act  of 1968. Enactment of the bill, Kaiser told the
Subcommittee, Would “permit the cities, working with the private sector, to make a major beginning to improve” 
urban  conditions. The level of appropriations called for in the bill, Kaiser added, “begins to approach the need for
the first time in urban  legislative history.“
The President's Committee on Urban Housing , Kaiser explained, was appointed June 2, 1967, and had made a
detailed study of the proposals contained in S 3029. Although the Committee believed that the need for new and
rehabilitated urban housing  was “greater than the level of…funding” proposed by S 3029, the President's
Committee was “doubtful” whether more ambitious goals than the Administration proposed could be “realistically
achieved” over the five-year period covered by S 3029. And unrealistic goals would “unduly raise aspirations and
hope” among the nation's ill-housed families, Kaiser said.
Lloyd E. Clarke, president of the National Assn. of Home Builders of the United States (NAHB), said S 3029
reflected “a developing awareness of the dimensions of the ( housing ) problem and of the need for marshaling
the…productive strength of the nation in joint efforts” to improve the housing  situation.
Speaking for 50,000 home builders across the nation, Clarke emphasized the importance of “immediate emergency
action” on one feature of S 3029 which removed mandatory interest-rate ceilings on mortgage loans guaranteed by
the Federal Housing  Administration (FHA) and the Veterans Administration (VA). Despite provisions of S 3029
which were designed to spur new housing  construction, Clarke said, “substantial declines” in construction were
“certain” unless “relief from artificial ceilings” was obtained.
The NAHB was “not persuaded,” Clarke said, that the Administration's proposed conversion of the Federal National
Mortgage Assn. (FNMA) to wholly private ownership was a good idea.
March 14—Walter P. Reuther, president of the Industrial Union Department (AFL-CIO) and of the United
Automobile Workers (UAW), endorsed both S 3029 and S 3028. Testifying on behalf of 8 million union members,
Reuther noted that the bills proposed “major policy changes” designed to help all citizens “attain a decent home.“
Reuther called for “a massive and continuous national public and private effort” to “eliminate slum housing .” In
addition to endorsing the Administration bills, Reuther called for the establishment of publicly owned urban  land
banks which would acquire and hold “a large percentage of the land both within and outside the city.” Reuther said
the creation of such banks, which he noted were “used extensively abroad,” would reduce opportunities for urban
 land speculation in the private sector and ensure the availability of land to meet current and future needs for
“open space, green-belts, recreation acreage, industrial activity and transportation facilities.“
A spokesman for the Mortgage Bankers Assn. of America (MBA) favored the Administration proposals for home
ownership and rental housing  assistance through federal subsidy of interest rates on mortgage loans. The
subsidy mechanism would “encourage the active participation of private investors in these areas of housing ,”
the MBA believed.
March 15—A representative of the National Assn. of Real Estate Boards (NAREB) strongly endorsed the transfer
of the FNMA, with its secondary mortgage market operations, to private ownership. W. Parham Bridges Jr.,
president of the NAREB, also told the Subcommittee that “no item” in S 3029 was “more urgent than the proposal to
remove the statutory interest rate ceilings” from federal mortgage insurance programs.
In other testimony, spokesmen for the National League of Insured Savings Assns. (NLISA) and the American
Institute of Planners (AIP) endorsed the Administration-backed legislation.
March 18—Turning to consideration of S 3028, the National Insurance Development  Corporation Act  of
1968, the Subcommittee heard testimony by Robert C. Moot, administrator of the Small Business Administration,
and by insurance industry spokesmen.
Moot told the panel that S 3028 contained “a well conceived plan to help make property insurance more widely
available, especially in center city areas.” It was “hardly necessary…to stress the importance” of the legislation for
small business firms, Moot added.
Spokesmen for the American Insurance Assn. (AIA), representing 169 stock companies which sold property and
liability insurance, also endorsed S 3028. T. Lawrence Jones, president of the AIA, said the bill “carries out the
principal recommendations” of the President's National Advisory Panel on Insurance in Riot-Affected Areas which
had been “publicly endorsed” by the AIA.
March 19—Strong objections to the provisions of S 3028 were expressed by spokesmen for mutual insurance
companies. Both the American Mutual Insurance Alliance (AMIA) and the National Assn. of Mutual Insurance
Companies (NAMIC) contended that the Administration bill went beyond the Jan. 26 recommendations of the
President's Advisory Panel by proposing federal regulation of underwriting practices through the reinsurance
activities of the National Insurance Development  Corp.
In opposition to the views of the mutual insurance companies, New Jersey Gov. Richard J. Hughes (D), chairman
of the President's Advisory Panel, told the Subcommittee that S 3028 represented a solution to the urban
insurance crisis which adhered to “traditional patterns” of recognizing national problems as primarily national
responsibilities. Hughes described the bill as “the federal portion” of a cooperative effort which included the
insurance industry, state governments and the Federal Government.
7/2/09 1:37 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 12 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283833&type=hitlist&num=0
Pittsburgh Mayor Joseph M. Barr (D), representing his city and the 600-member U.S. Conference of Mayors, urged
swift approval of S 3029. “The view from the mayor's desk these days is a most unpleasant one,” Barr explained.
“My fellow mayors and I see too many of our citizens living in crumbling buildings…and we have neither the tools to
repair those buildings nor the resources to replace them.“
March 20—Cleveland Mayor Carl B. Stokes (D) warmly endorsed S 3029 and said the Johnson Administration's
proposed housing  program represented “the best thinking” to solve the urban  crisis. Testifying specifically
on the home ownership assistance program contained in the bill, Stokes asked the Subcommittee to “give us the
mortgage assistance payments and we can have low-income home owners within the next 12 months.“
Sen. Robert F. Kennedy (D N.Y.) said there were “major defects” in S 3029. He said he still felt the “best route”
toward the goal of bringing private investment into ghetto housing  was a system of tax incentives and that the
bill (S 2100) he sponsored in 1967 which provided tax credits was the best solution to the problem. But since the
Administration continued to oppose tax credits, Kennedy offered an alternative proposal.
The new proposal involved exempting low-rental projects built by private investors from all federal taxes and paying
the holder of the mortgage on a project a tax-free supplement of 6 percent on his investment.
Kennedy also recommended that at least 75 percent of the new housing  should be built in urban  slum
areas, at least 25 percent of the workers on any project should be residents of the area, poverty area residents
should be given a voice in “the rebuilding of their communities,” adequate resettlement provisions should be
established, tenant organizations should be encouraged to take a role in managing and eventually purchasing the
rental projects.
March 21—Former Sen. Paul H. Douglas (D III., 1949–67), a former Committee member and currently chairman of
President Johnson's Commission on Urban  Problems, supported “the main features” S 3029. The most
effective way to produce a large annual volume of low- and moderate-income housing  with the lowest annual
outlay of federal funds, Douglas explained, was to use an interest-rate subsidy formula for home ownership
assistance like the one contained in the Administration bill.
St. Paul Mayor Thomas R. Byrne, speaking for the 14,400 cities of the National League of Cities, strongly
endorsed S 3029 and hoped that “this vital national effort will not be aborted by overly cautious Appropriations
Committees” of Congress. Federal legislation should fully recognize, Byrne said, that inadequate housing  was
“one of the most important contributors to current urban  unrest” and that “current federal, state and local public
and private housing  programs” were “inadequate to meet present and future needs. The Administration
program was “realistic” in attempting to meet the needs, Byrne added.
Robert F. Kerley, testifying on behalf of the American Council on Education, the Assn. of American Colleges
and four other educational organizations, expressed the “strong opposition” of these groups to a provision of S 3029
which raised interest rates on loans for college housing  construction and related facilities from a fixed 3-percent
rate to a flexible rate which could range between the market interest rate for federal obligations of comparable
maturities and a rate which was 1 percent lower than the market rate. (Under the bill, the HUD Secretary had
discretionary authority to set the flexible rate between the limits indicated. Based on March 1968 interest rates, the
provision would raise the 3-percent rate to between 4.25 percent and 5.25 percent.)
March 22—Nathaniel S. Keith, president of the National Housing  Conference (NHC), presented the detailed
recommendations of the NHC for housing  and urban  affairs legislation in 1968.
The program of the NHC, a 4,000-member organization composed of federal and local housing  officials, labor
union leaders and spokesmen for civil and professional organizations, said “decent, safe and sanitary housing  is
at the heart of the crisis in our cities” and called for action to “eliminate all slums and substandard housing  in
the next 20 years.” The NHC strongly endorsed HR 15624 and HR 15625 but proposed numerous amendments
designed to accelerate the proposed rate of housing  construction and rehabilitation. (For details, see 1968
Weekly Report p. 605.)
ACTION—The full Committee May 15 reported a clean bill (S 3497—S Kept 1123) which embodied the major
provisions of S 3029 and which added several new provisions.
The housing  bill, as agreed upon by the Committee, retained the major proposals of the Administration bill but
reduced the period of authorizations from five to three years. The bill authorized total expenditures of about $5.2
billion which were approximately at the level of the Administration request for the first three years of its five-year
program. The total Administration request was $7.5 billion. Sparkman said he hoped that the bill would make it
possible to reach the President's goal of 600,000 housing  starts annually by 1971.
The bill provided a total of $300 million for a home-ownership program, under which the Federal Government would
subsidize mortgages on low-cost housing  purchased by low-income families. A new rent subsidy program and
an expansion of rent supplement and public housing  programs were authorized by the bill at the levels
requested by the Administration.
The bill authorized the creation of federally chartered but privately funded corporations which would form national 
housing  partnerships to undertake large housing  projects on a national scale. National housing
partnerships had been proposed by the President. The bill encouraged the development  of new towns by
7/2/09 1:37 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 13 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283833&type=hitlist&num=0
partnerships had been proposed by the President. The bill encouraged the development  of new towns by
authorizing the Secretary of the Department of Housing  and Urban Development  (HUD) to guarantee up to
$50 million in obligations issued by a developer building a new communicty. This provision had been included in S
3029.
Urban  renewal funds were authorized at the $1.4-billion level requested by the Administration, including funds
for a new Neighborhood Development  Program which would provide a means for rapid action on specific 
urban  renewal needs. The Committee added a provision requiring that at least 51 percent of future residential 
urban  renewal must be used to provide residential structures for low-income groups.
The bill also authorized $1 billion annually in supplementary grants for the model cities program in fiscal 1970 and
1971, as requested by the President.
The clean bill included a provision to create a National Insurance Development  Corporation within HUD to
provide federal reinsurance protection for insurance companies which offered coverage against riots and civil
disturbances in urban  areas. This proposal had been introduced as a separate bill (S 3028). A provision to
make areas damaged by civil disorders eligible for disaster relief under existing federal disaster programs also was
included.
A Senate-passed flood-insurance bill (S 1985) which provided federal subsidies for flood insurance in high-risk
areas and a federal reinsurance fund to cover insurance companies suffering catastrophic losses was added to the 
housing  bill. S 1985 was passed by both the Senate and House in 1967 but became deadlocked in conference
because of differences in the funding provisions passed by the two Chambers. (See 1967 Almanac p. 1034.)
A provision also was added to the bill to require that land sales transactions of 50 lots or more be registered with
HUD if they were carried out through the mails or in interstate commerce. This provision was similar in purpose to
the Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act  (S 275) proposed by Harrison A. Williams Jr. (D N.J.) in 1967. (For
S 275, see 1967 Almanac p. 733.)
A new federal program to subsidize interest payments on loans for college housing  construction also was
added.
A provision of the Administration bill to remove the statutory ceilings on interest rates of mortgages insured by the
Federal Housing  Administration (FHA) and the Veterans Administration was passed by the Senate April 19 in a
separate bill (HR 10477) and was not included in the clean bill. (For final action on HR 10477, see p. 174.)
Floor Action
The Senate May 28 by a 67–4 roll-call vote passed S 3497 authorizing a three-year, $4.95-billion program. (See
vote 132, p. 30-S.)
Sen. John J. Sparkman (D Ala.), chairman of the Senate Banking and Currency Committee and chief sponsor of S
3497, said in debate May 24 that many of the existing housing  programs “have not reached down far enough to
help those who need housing  the most.” He also said that “changing economic and social conditions have
aggravated and worsened the urban housing  problem so that, despite existing programs, many inner city areas
have deteriorated at a faster rate than ever before.“
The homeownership program, a major feature of the bill, was designed to enable low income families to purchase
their own homes by providing a federal subsidy on the mortgage interest paid by such families (generally those
whose income ranged from $3,000 to $7,000). Supporters of the homeownership program emphasized the
stabilizing effects of homeownership on both individuals and communities.
The bill also required the Federal Housing  Administration (FHA) to provide greater opportunities for obtaining
FHA insurance on properties in declining urban  areas and to make such insurance more available to persons
with irregular income patterns. Sparkman said that existing law had placed the FHA in a “dilemma.” He said that “on
the one hand, FHA is required to run an actuarially sound operation with a minimum of losses while, on the other
hand, it gets criticized because it shies away from marginal risk cases and from neighborhoods where private
enterprise has indicated ‘off limits.’” Funds for a Special Risk Insurance Fund were authorized.
No major changes in the bill were made on the floor. A number of the amendments were concerned with aid to riot
victims and riot-damaged cities but a provision that would have made such cities eligible for federal disaster aid was
deleted. An amendment to eliminate the NIDC was defeated by a 10–62 roll-call vote and an amendment to
eliminate aid for the development  of new communities was defeated by a 27–38 roll-call vote. (For roll-call
voting, see pages 29-S, 30-S.)
Provisions
As passed by the Senate, S 3497:
Title I—Lower Income Housing . Established a homeownership assistance program for lower income families
based on an interest rate subsidy. Stipulated that mortgages under the program would be made at market rates of
interest and that the Government would pay the interest subsidy directly to the institution making the loans.
7/2/09 1:37 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 14 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283833&type=hitlist&num=0
Set the amount of subsidy under the program at the difference between 20 percent of the family's monthly income
and the required monthly payment under she mortgage for principal, interest, taxes, insurance and mortgage
insurance premium. Required, however, that the purchaser make payments at least equal to the payment that would
be required if the mortgage were made at a 1 percent rate.
Limited participation in the program to lower income families, generally families whose incomes were in the $3,000
to $7,000 range. Set a general limitation on the amount of the mortgage at $15,000 with higher mortgages allowed
in high cost areas and for large families.
Required that a participant's income be recertified at least every two years and that appropriate adjustments in the
assistance payment be made to reflect any changes.
Limited assistance under the program after its third year to new or substantially rehabilitated housing  but
provided exceptions for families displaced by governmental action or disaster and some other families.
Authorized FHA insurance of mortgages and mortgage payment subsidies for the purchase and rehabilitation of
deteriorating or substandard housing  by nonprofit sponsors or local housing  agencies for subsequent
resale to lower income home purchasers.
Authorized the Department of Housing  and Urban Development  (HUD) to provide counseling on care of a
home and budgeting of income for persons assisted under the program.
Authorized contracts for annual homeownership assistance payments aggregating not more than $75 million in fiscal
1969, $175 million in fiscal 1970, and $300 million in subsequent fiscal years.
Established a new program to make FHA home mortgage insurance available to low-income families who could not
qualify for such insurance under existing FHA programs because of their credit histories or irregular income patterns
but whom the Department of HUD considered satisfactory risks and capable of homeownership with the assistance
of counseling.
Gave the FHA more flexible authority to provide financing for the repair, rehabilitation, construction or purchase of
property located in older, declining urban  areas which may not meet normal eligibility requirements.
Established a Special Risk Insurance Fund to insure mortgages under the above programs and under assistance for
rental and cooperative housing  (see Title II, below). Authorized appropriations to the fund to cover any losses.
Authorized the Secretary of HUD to provide nonprofit sponsors of low- and moderate-income housing  with
technical assistance and interest-free loans to cover certain preconstruction costs.
Authorized the Secretary of HUD, in cooperation with the private insurance industry, to develop a plan to provide
insurance to help homeowners meet mortgage payments in periods of personal economic adversity.
Established a National Advisory Commission on Low-Income Housing .
Created a National Homeownership Foundation (a government chartered private nonprofit corporation) to provide
technical and limited financial assistance to public and private organizations providing lower income housing .
Authorized the FHA to insure mortgages on large-scale experimental housing  projects for lower income families
under such programs as homeownership assistance, rent supplements and 221(d)(3).
Title II—Rental Housing  for Lower Income Families. Established a new program of subsidies for the
construction or rehabilitation of rental and cooperative housing  for low-income families. Provided for federal
assistance payments to cover the difference between the market rate mortgage and the amount that would be
required on a mortgage bearing an interest rate of 1 percent.
Provided that tenants in projects built under this program pay 25 percent of their income as rent up to the full market
rental. Required that rental charges collected in excess of the basic charges (calculated on the basis of a 1-percent
mortgage) be returned to the Department of HUD. Set income eligibility limits roughly equivalent to those under the
new homeowners’ assistance program.
Authorized contracts for annual interest assistance payments of not more than $75 million in fiscal 1969, $175
million in fiscal 1970, and $300 million in subsequent fiscal years.
Authorized new annual contract authority for the rent supplement program of $40 million in fiscal 1970 and $100
million in fiscal 1971.
Extended assistance under the rent supplement program to projects financed under state or local programs.
Increased authorization for annual contribution contract authority for the low-rent public housing  program by
$100 million upon enactment and $150 million in fiscal 1969 and 1970.
Authorized the Department of HUD to enter into grant contracts with local housing  authorities to assist them in
upgrading their management and providing tenant services.
7/2/09 1:37 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 15 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283833&type=hitlist&num=0
Title III—Federal Housing  Administration Insurance Operations. (Similar to final provisions.)
Title IV—New Community Land Development . Authorized the Secretary of HUD to guarantee the bonds,
debentures, notes and other obligations issued by private developers to help finance the development  of entire
new towns or new communities.
Set ceilings of $50 million on the guarantee on any single new development  and $250 million in aggregate
outstanding obligations.
Authorized supplemental grants to states and localities for assisting new communities with water and sewer and
open space projects.
Title V— Urban  Renewal. Authorized a new program of financial assistance to local public agencies for
“neighborhood development  programs” under which urban  renewal projects were to be planned and
carried out on an annual basis.
Authorized $1.4 billion for the urban  renewal program in fiscal 1970.
Authorized an additional $350 million for urban  renewal projects in model city areas.
Removed existing limitations on the acquisition and rehabilitation of residential properties by a local urban
renewal agency.
Authorized the Secretary of HUD to make grants for the demolition of nonresidential structures that are harborages
for rats.
Authorized grants of up to $20 million a year to provide interim assistance to blighted areas where substantial
permanent clearance or rehabilitation is planned but not yet under way.
Required that over 50 percent (on an aggregate basis) of all housing  units provided in all urban  renewal
areas redeveloped for residential uses be standard housing  units for low-and moderate-income families or
individuals. (Currently a minimum of 20 percent of the housing  in each project was reserved for low- and
moderate-income persons.)
Increased the rehabilitation grant that can be made to low-income homeowners from $1,500 to $2,500.
Title VI— Urban  Planning and Facilities. Authorized a new category of assistance for “district” planning in
rural and other areas outside of metropolitan areas. Stipulated that such districts were to include all or part of at
least one county and of at least one other general-purpose unit of government, but not any part of a metropolitan
area.
Increased the authorization for the overall urban  planning grants program by $35 million in fiscal 1969 and
$125 million in fiscal 1970. Specifically earmarked $20 million of the fiscal 1969 authorization and $10 million of the
fiscal 1970 authorization for district planning grants. Extended to the new rural district planning areas eligibility to
receive bonus grants of up to an additional 20 percent of project costs under numerous federal grant programs
when the HUD Secretary determined that such areas were practicing comprehensive areawide planning. (Existing
law, Section 205 of the 1966 Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan Development Act , limited such assistance
to metropolitan areas.) Also continued through fiscal 1970 the availability of the $75 million authorized for the
program for fiscal 1967 and 1968 but denied by Congress in appropriations acts for those two fiscal years. Provided
that any funds authorized but not appropriated through fiscal 1969 for basic water and sewer facilities, neighborhood
facilities and advance acquisition of land remain available through fiscal 1970. Authorized an additional $115 million
for water and sewer facilities, thus providing a total of $400 million for this program.
Converted the funding provision for the open-space land program from contract authority to regular authorization for
appropriations. Authorized appropriation of the unused portion of the total $310 million in contract authority for the
program and authorized an additional $150 million for fiscal 1970.
Title VII— Urban  Mass Transportation. (Same as final provisions.)
Title VIII—Secondary Mortgage Market.  (Same as final provisions, except authorized increase of $250 million in
special assistance authority.)
Title IX—National Housing  Partnerships. (Same as final provisions.)
Title X—Rural Housing . Authorized direct and insured loans with interest rate subsidies to provide housing
 for low- and moderate-income families in rural areas who are not able to obtain housing  under the home-
ownership or subsidized rental and cooperative housing  programs set up under S 3497.
Title XI—National Insurance Development  Corp. Created within the HUD Department a National Insurance 
Development  Corp. (NIDC), to be terminated in 1976.
Authorized the NIDC to provide reinsurance to insurance companies for losses paid by them resulting from riots or
civil disorders.
7/2/09 1:37 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 16 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283833&type=hitlist&num=0
Required the NIDC to set reinsurance premiums that would provide an aggregate fund in excess of the estimated
amount of insured riot losses during 1967.
Specified that reinsurance would not be offered in states which did not provide, within a specified time, for sharing
some of the costs to the NIDC of covering reinsured losses.
Required insurers reinsured by the NIDC to cooperate with state insurance authorities in establishing and carrying
out statewide plans to assure fair access to insurance requirements (FAIR plans). (These plans were designed to
ensure that property owners were not denied insurance solely because of the area in which their property was
located.)
Provided that state FAIR plans be administered under the supervision of the state insurance authority.
Set minimum requirements for FAIR plans including:
Property insurance may not be denied without inspection of the property.
Insurers declining a risk or agreeing to provide coverage only if the property was improved must provide property
owners with a statement of reasons for refusal of coverage or improvements required for coverage.
Required state plans to include an all-industry placement facility to help agents and brokers to place insurance up to
the full insurable value of a property.
Authorized the NIDC to modify the criteria for state plans.
Authorized the Secretary of the HUD Department to borrow from the Treasury to pay reinsurance claims in excess
of the aggregate amount of reinsurance premiums received by the NIDC.
Directed the NIDC to study means of assuring an adequate supply of burglary and theft insurance.
Title XII—National Flood Insurance. Gave the Secretary of HUD authority to set up a program of flood insurance
as a joint federal-private venture; permitted the Secretary to establish an all-federal program in the event that a joint
program was not feasible, but not until 90 days after reporting to Congress his reasons for the decision.
Made personal and property insurance available initially to one- to four-family houses and ultimately to businesses,
other residential properties and agricultural areas. Specified that insurance would be available only in states which
“evidenced a positive interest” in flood insurance and adopted land use and control regulations before June 30,
1970, to prevent unwise use of flood-prone land.
Established a 15-member Flood Insurance Advisory Committee to assist the HUD Secretary in determining the
scope of the program, the premiums to be charged and how the program should be operated. Specified the
following maximum liabilities eligible for rates below actuarial cost (subsidized premiums): $15,000 for a one-family
dwelling; $30,000 for a multiple-unit dwelling; and $5,000 for the contents of each unit.
Directed the Secretary to encourage private insurers to form a pool to sell and service flood insurance and to share
profits and liabilities. Limited insurance outstanding at any time to $2.5 billion.
Authorized the Secretary to make premium equalization payments to the insurers’ pool to make up the difference
between below-cost premiums paid and the actuarial cost of the insurance. Pledged the Federal Government to
back up the private firms by paying any claims in excess of the financial capacity of the privately financed pool.
Directed the Secretary, with other federal agencies, to identify flood zones according to declining risk of disaster
and, within five years after enactment, to establish a set of actuarial flood insurance premiums based on the flood-
zone statistics.
Created a National Flood Insurance Fund in the Treasury Department and gave the HUD Secretary borrowing
authority of up to $500 million. Specified that the Fund would be used to pay premium subsidies to the insurance
pool and reinsurance claims when the pool suffered excessive losses. Authorized appropriations to reimburse the
Treasury for payments from the Fund.
Authorized the Secretary to develop comprehensive criteria for state and local planning and regulations of land use
in flood-prone areas.
Stipulated that the act  would take effect 120 days after enactment unless the Secretary stipulated that he
needed 180 days to prepare the program.
Title XIII—Interstate Land Sales. (Similar to final Title XIV provisions.)
Title XIV—Ten-Year Housing  Program. Required the President to make a report to Congress on or before
Jan. 15, 1969, setting forth a 10-year plan to meet national housing  needs.
Also required the President to make annual reports during each of the 10 years, comparing results for the previous
year with the goals set forth in the plan for that year.
7/2/09 1:37 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 17 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283833&type=hitlist&num=0
Title XV—Miscellaneous.  (Generally same as final Title XVII provisions.)
AMENDMENTS ACCEPTED
May 27—Richard B. Russell (D Ga.)—Delete provision which included riots and civil disorders among the kinds of
disasters for which federal assistance was available under the Disaster Relief Acts of 1950 and 1966. Roll call, 57–
2.
William Proxmire (D Wis.)—Permit victims of riots and civil disorders to be given priority in relocating in urban
renewal areas when the Secretary of Housing  and Urban Development  (HUD) determines that there is a
special need. Roll call, 56–2.
Robert C. Byrd (D W. Va.)—Permit local housing  agencies to purchase and rehabilitate housing  for sale to
low-income families under the homeownership program. Voice.
John J. Sparkman (D Ala.)—Extend by one year the time limit set on a study of the savings and loan industry. Voice.
May 28—John G. Tower (R Texas)—Reduce from $500 to $250 million the additional special assistance funds
available to the Government National Mortgage Assn. (GNMA) for the below-market interest rate program (Section
221(d) (3)). Voice.
John J. Williams (R Del.)—Stipulate that holders of defaulted FHA mortgages could collect FHA insurance only for the
amount actually paid for the mortgage (thus excluding payments that were made under the point system). Roll call,
69–0.
A.S. Mike Monroney (D Okla.)—Add a new provision protecting veterans from liability for defaults on VA guaranteed
home loans by subsequent purchasers of the property. Voice.
Wallace F. Bennett (R Utah)—Authorize national banks and savings and loan associations to issue securities backed
by pools of Government-insured mortgages. Voice.
Jacob K. Javits (R N.Y.)—Three amendments considered en bloc to:
Require that to the greatest extent feasible employment arising from lower-income housing  programs be given to
lower income persons residing in the area of such housing  and that contracts be awarded to residents of the area.
Broaden provision which made original purchasers of cooperative housing  under the homeownership program
(Title I) eligible for interest payment subsidies by making subsequent purchasers eligible also.
Make nonprofit sponsors of low-income rental or cooperative housing  projects financed under a state or local
assistance program eligible for mortgage interest subsidies under the rent subsidy program (Title II). Voice.
Javits—Provide for persons representative of those eligible for low-income housing  to sit on the National
Advisory Commission on Low-Income Housing  set up under the bill. Voice.
Proxmire—Authorized the HUD Department to insure large-scale experimental housing  projects for lower
income families. Voice.
Joseph S. Clark (D Pa.)—Require that jobs created by the water and sewer facilities program be made available to
the unemployed and underemployed to the greatest extent practicable. Voice.
Birch Bayh (D Ind.)—Prohibit persons convicted of committing a felony during a riot or civil disorder from receiving
aid under the disaster provisions of disaster relief laws. Voice.
Bayh—Authorize the Federal Government to provide housing , on a temporary basis, for low-income families
displaced by major disasters. Voice.
Philip A. Hart (D Mich.)—Require the use of new technology, materials and methods in the construction and
rehabilitation of housing  under HUD Department housing  programs to the greatest extent possible.
Bayh and Jack Miller (R Iowa)—Authorize the Farmers Home Administration to make low-interest loans for the repair
or replacement of property damaged in a major disaster even if an individual is able to obtain credit from other
sources. Voice.
Bayh and Miller—Authorize the Small Business Administration to make low-interest loans for the repair or
replacement of property damaged in a major disaster even if an individual is able to obtain credit from other
sources. Voice.
Lee Metcalf (D Mont.)—Include the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands among the areas eligible for Small Business
Administration disaster loans. Voice.
Sparkman—Permit national banks to continue to purchase participations in existing mortgages and provide that
7/2/09 1:37 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 18 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283833&type=hitlist&num=0
Sparkman—Permit national banks to continue to purchase participations in existing mortgages and provide that
certain loans would not be considered real estate loans. Voice.
Peter H. Dominick (R Colo.)—Reduce from $500 million to $250 million the ceiling on the aggregate amount of
outstanding principal obligations guaranteed under the program to encourage the construction of new communities
(Title IV). Voice.
J.W. Fulbright (D Ark.)—Exempt from the land sales disclosure provisions (Title XIII) developments where each
purchaser has inspected the lot he purchases. Voice.
Charles H. Percy (R III.)—Change language to ensure that both moderate-and low-income housing  is built in 
urban  renewal areas. Voice.
AMENDMENTS REJECTED
May 27—John G. Tower (R Texas)—Limit eligibility for assistance under the homeownership program to families
whose incomes were not more than 70 percent of the income level allowed for the federally assisted 221(d)(3)
program. (Under S 3497 this restriction was applied to 80 percent of persons aided under the home-ownership
program and the remaining 20 percent could have incomes up to the 221(d)(3) level.) Roll call, 25–36.
Tower—Delete new program of guarantees for financing new community land development  (Title IV). Roll call,
27–38.
Richard B. Russell (D Ga.)—Require municipalities, in addition to the states, to reimburse the National Insurance 
Development  Corp. (NIDC) for some of the costs of riot losses reinsured by the NIDC. Roll call, 25–35.
May 28—Tower—Require the Secretary of HUD to submit reports to Congress on each city plan under the model
cities program before making grants to carry out the city's plan. Voice vote.
Russell—Delete provision (Title XI) creating a National Insurance Development  Corp. Roll call, 10–62.
House
COMMITTEE—House Banking and Currency Subcommittee on Housing ; William A. Barrett (D Pa.), chairman.
HELD HEARINGS—Periodically between March 12 and April 4 on HR 15624 and HR 15625, House companion
bills to S 3029 and S 3028. The following summary omits the testimony of some individuals and groups which
paralleled their previous statements before the Senate Subcommittee.
TESTIMONY—March 14—Philadelphia Mayor James H.J. Tate (D) told the Subcommittee that enactment of HR
15624 would “open a new era” in the solution of the nation's housing  problems. Appearing as a witness for the
National League of Cities, Tate said that all previous federal-aid housing  programs might “appropriately be
classified as demonstration of experimental…projects,” compared to the vast effort to be undertaken under HR
15624. “It is now time,” Tate declared, “that we get down to serious business.“
March 19—William L. Rafsky, president of the National Assn. of Housing  and Redevelopment Officials
(NAHRO), endorsed the Administration bill but emphasized that the federal-aid public housing  program,
“because of rising costs,” was becoming unable “to hold minimum rents at levels low enough to meet the needs of
the lowest income families.“
A spokesman for the American Transit Assn. (ATA), representing public and private transit systems that were
used by 80 percent of the nation's local transit passengers, said the need for increased authorization of mass-transit
aid was “clearly evident to all who are familiar with the urban  transit industry today.” The ATA “wholeheartedly
supports” the fiscal 1970 authorization of $190 million contained in HR 15624, the spokesman said. The ATA
believed, moreover, that this was “indeed a very modest figure.“
March 21—Eugene H. Nickerson, County Executive of Nassau County (Long Island), N.Y., speaking on behalf of
the National Assn. of Counties, endorsed the area-wide development  sections of the bill. Noting that “70
percent of our population is congested (on) 1 percent of the land,” Nickerson said that “planning is the key to begin
the reversal of this trend.” Federal support for “voluntary, areawide cooperative planning” by local governments
could provide the framework needed “to obtain the greatest utilization of all federal aid,” Nickerson said, “while at
the same time greatly strengthening…local government.“
March 27—William L. Taylor, staff director of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, strongly endorsed the new 
housing  programs for low- and middle-income families which were proposed in HR 15624. The Civil Rights
Commission believed, Taylor told the Subcommittee, that “federal housing  programs, which so often have
served to intensify the problems of racial and economic separation” in the nation's cities, needed to be “molded into
effective instruments to counteract segregation by race and income.” HR 15624, with its new programs of aid for
home ownership and low-cost rental housing , contained “enormous potential,” Taylor said, “not only for
improving housing  conditions, but also for reshaping residential patterns.“
Taylor noted that “issues of civil rights and race relations rarely are discussed openly in the process of considering 
7/2/09 1:37 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 19 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283833&type=hitlist&num=0
Taylor noted that “issues of civil rights and race relations rarely are discussed openly in the process of considering 
housing  legislation.” But the Civil Rights Commission believed that the relationship between race relations and
the Administration's proposed housing  programs was “clear” and “should be recognized” by the Subcommittee.
March 28—Roy B. Martin Jr., mayor of Norfolk, Va., and a spokesman for the U.S. Conference of Mayors, said that
the “programs set forth and the funds necessary to implement them as requested by the Administration” in HR
15624 were “absolutely minimal.” The 600-member Conference of Mayors was “tremendously pleased and
encouraged by the President's 10-year program for housing  and community development ,” Martin said, but
he warned that Administration goals required the “full support of the private sector” as well as “constant and
cooperative efforts” by all levels of government.
April 1—Spokesmen for two of the largest private insurance companies in the nation, Aetna Life and Casualty and
The Travelers Insurance Companies, endorsed HR 15625, the National Insurance Development  Corporation 
Act . The representative of Aetna told the Subcommittee that a partnership between government and industry to
provide insurance protection in urban  areas was “an appropriate means of dealing with what has become a
national emergency.“
April 2—In a statement submitted to the Subcommittee, a representative of the Chamber of Commerce of the
United States suggested several changes in the Administration-backed legislation. The Chamber noted that
“increasing numbers of business firms…are contributing to efforts for better housing  and for…improving the
physical environment of cities, suburbs and rural areas.” The Chamber urged that HR 15624 be amended, however,
to permit establishment of a National Homeownership Foundation to help middle-income families purchase homes.
(For this proposal, see 1967 Almanac p. 492.)
The Chamber also recommended adoption of provisions to increase coordination between the Federal Government
and local housing  authorities, urged that areawide planning responsibilities be retained by the states and asked
for replacement of the existing revolving credit fund for federal housing  programs by direct appropriations.
A spokesman for Menswear Retailers of America, representing 3, 300 retail clothing stores, urged the Subcommittee
to act  favorably on HR 15625, the National Insurance Development  Corporation Act . “Our
membership…has experienced the frustrations of attempting to secure adequate protection at reasonable costs,” the
spokesman said.
April 3—John A. Baker, Assistant Secretary of Agriculture, endorsed the rural housing  and rural development
 provisions of HR 15624. The bill would “make available to rural people the benefits of comprehensive multicounty
community planning” and would “improve their access—particularly the access of the rural poor— to adequate 
housing ,” he said.
ACTION—The full Committee June 25 reported a clean bill (HR 17989—H Rept 1585) providing home-ownership
and rent subsidy programs and splitting FNMA into two corporations.
The Committee deleted two titles from the Senate bill. Dropped were provisions guaranteeing bonds for the
construction of new communities and requiring full disclosure on interstate land sales. Senate flood and ghetto
insurance programs were modified. The Committee added a new program of mortgage insurance for nonprofit
hospitals designed to supplement the existing program of grants for hospital construction.
Noting that about six million families lived in substandard housing , the Committee said “the task of our 
housing  and urban development  programs is more critical than ever.” The Committee described HR 17989 as
“one of the most comprehensive and forward-looking bills” ever proposed in the field.
Floor Action
The House July 10, by a 295–114 roll-call vote, passed a major Administration-backed housing  and urban
development  bill (HR 17989). (See vote 129, p. 58-H.)
The estimated cost of the bill was $5.2 billion over the three-year period for which most of the programs were
authorized. The long-range cost would be much higher because many of the programs authorized contracts running
as long as 40-years.
Following passage, the House substituted the provisions of HR 17989 for those of the Senate-passed housing
bill (S 3497) and passed the amended S 3497 by voice vote.
A central issue in House debate on the bill was whether the two major innovative housing  programs—
homeownership and rent subsidy—should be directed primarily at moderate- or at low-income families. The
Administration proposed that the Secretary of Housing  and Urban Development  be given the authority to
set income limits for eligibility under these two programs with the understanding that the limits set would follow
those currently used in the below-market interest rate program (BMIR). The upper range of incomes of persons
aided under the BMIR program was generally around $7,000 but could be considerably higher for large families and
families living in high-cost areas. (For description of the BMIR program, see p. 319.)
Both the House and Senate lowered the income limits allowed under the homeownership and rent subsidy
programs. Proponents of the lower limits argued that the Administration bill would not reach the families most in
need of assistance. The House lowered the income limit on the homeownership program when it accepted a floor
7/2/09 1:37 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 20 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283833&type=hitlist&num=0
need of assistance. The House lowered the income limit on the homeownership program when it accepted a floor
amendment by a 271–137 roll-call vote. (See below for details; see vote 127, p. 58-H.)
House and Senate Bills Compared. The House and Senate provisions setting up homeownership and rent subsidy
programs were similar in outline. The House eliminated the corporate structure provided in the Senate bill for the
ghetto insurance program but did not change its functions. No major changes were made in the flood insurance
program. Both bills provided for setting up national housing  partnerships to stimulate the construction of low-
and moderate-income housing  and for dividing the Federal National Mortgage Assn. into two separate
corporations, one government run, and one privately owned.
The House bill dropped Senate provisions on new communities and interstate land sales and added a program of
mortgage insurance for nonprofit hospitals.
Floor Debate
Homeownership Program—Title I. There was general support for the basic principles of the home-ownership
program which was considered one of the major provisions of the Housing  and Urban Development  bill.
Members said that it would provide an important means of achieving the national goal first enunciated in the 1949 
Housing Act  of “a decent home and a decent environment for every American family.“
Wright Patman (D Texas), chairman of the Banking and Currency Committee which had jurisdiction over HR 17989,
said that adoption of a homeownership program was “one of the most important issues to come before Congress.
Pride of ownership is a subtle but powerful force. Past experience has shown us that families offered decent homes
at prices they can afford have demonstrated a new dignity, a new attitude toward their jobs, and a sense of
participation in their community…. By extending the opportunity for homeownership to low- and moderate-income
families, we will give them a concrete incentive for striving to improve their own lives as well as the life of their
community.“
William B. Widnall (R N.J.), ranking Republican on the Banking and Currency Committee, said that the
homeownership program was based on Republican proposals for a homeownership program introduced in the
House in April 1967 as the National Home Ownership Foundation Act  (HR 8820). He said, “Although the
Department of Housing  and Urban Development  (HUD) greeted the NHOF proposal last year with
skepticism both for its technical provisions and its goal of lower income homeownership, sufficient support from a
variety of groups and individuals within American public appear to have changed the Administration's mind.
A number of Members stressed the importance of involving private enterprise in the provision of low-income 
housing .
The main controversy over the homeownership program centered on income limitations for persons buying houses
under that program. After considerable debate the House July 10, by a 271–137 roll-call vote accepted an
amendment to limit persons eligible under the home-ownership program to those whose income was not more than
30 percent higher than the ceiling for public housing  in their area. Under the Committee bill the Secretary of
HUD was authorized to set income limits for eligibility and they were expected to be somewhat higher. The
conservative coalition formed on this vote; a majority of Republicans and Southern Democrats voted together in
opposition to a majority of Northern Democrats. Only eight Republicans opposed the amendment. The breakdown:
R 170–8; D 101–129 (ND 31–114; SD 70–15).
The amendment was offered by John B. Anderson (R III.), who said that under the Committee bill the program would
not reach those who needed it most. He said, “When we talk in general and ill-defined terms, as we do in this bill,
about low-income and moderate-income housing , we are not talking about very much low-income housing .
We are talking about a lot of moderate-income housing .” The first concern should be the 13 million poor
families earning less than $5,000 per year who were looking for assistance in obtaining decent housing , he
said.
Henry S. Reuss (D Wis.), opposing the amendment, said, “We want to help worthy people to develop their own equity
in their own home, and that means we have to put some substance in this bill for those who are somewhat beyond
the pauper level, and that is why this is not just a low-income housing  bill but a moderate-income housing
bill.” He said the Anderson amendment would “make a mockery of the homeownership provision.” He said, “Unless
you beam it at moderate-income people… you are beaming it at nobody, because a pauper cannot own a home. It
does not make economic sense. He cannot pay off his mortgage. He cannot pay his taxes. He cannot pay for the
repairs. He cannot pay the insurance.“
Rent Programs—Title II. Patman said that the new Title II program of rent and interest subsidies had several
advantages over the existing below-market interest rate program (221 (d)(3)) which it was designed to replace. (For
221(d)(3) program, see p. 319.)
Patman said that under the new program rentals could be reduced while increasing the participation of the private
sector in financing these projects; more dramatic results in improving housing  conditions could be made with
the same amount of federal resources; and a more equitable allocation of assistance could be made as subsidies
would be reduced when tenants’ needs diminished.
Chalmers P. Wylie (R Ohio) said that the new program was designed to provide about 450,000 units of low-and
moderate-income housing  over a three-year period with appropriations of $300 million. He said that under the
7/2/09 1:37 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 21 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283833&type=hitlist&num=0
moderate-income housing  over a three-year period with appropriations of $300 million. He said that under the
221(d)(3) program it would cost between $5 and $6 billion to build the same volume of housing .
Income limitations were a major issue in debate on the rent program as in the homeownership program. The House
July 10 accepted an amendment proposed by Anderson which set the same income ceiling (30 percent higher than
the income ceiling allowed under the local public housing  program) which had been adopted for the
homeownership program.
The House July 10, by a 217–112 standing vote, also raised the proportion of a family's income that could be
required to be spent on rent under the rent subsidy program. The amendment, which raised the maximum
proportion from 20 to 25 percent, was proposed by W.E. Brock III (R Tenn.). The Administration bill had requested a
25 percent limit for the rental program and 20 percent for the homeownership program. The Committee bill set a 20
percent limit for both programs.
Brock said that the “whole thrust” of the bill was to encourage the maximum opportunity for homeownership as
opposed to rental and that there should be a difference in the proportion of income required to be spent under the
two programs “because the homeowner has to pay property taxes, he has to do the renovation, he has to do the
maintenance.“
The rent supplement program was sharply criticized by several Republicans during debate on the housing  bill
but the House rejected, by a 79–94 teller vote, an amendment which would have prevented further expansion of the
rent supplement program by prohibiting the Government to enter into new rent supplement contracts after July 30,
1968.
The House deleted from the Committee bill a new program of grants to public housing  agencies to finance
services for their tenants such as counseling on household management, child care and job opportunities. The bill
authorized $60 million over two years.
Urban  Renewal—Title IV. Patman said that the new neighborhood development  program was of
“tremendous” significance. He said it would allow cities with large blighted residential neighborhoods that were to be
renewed primarily for the benefit of existing residents to develop annual action programs. He said that the program
resulted from local complaints that the present urban  renewal program did not lend itself to dealing with large
residential areas where deterioration and blight were evenly distributed. He said that it would allow communities to
take rapid action to upgrade housing  and would help prevent further deterioration in the neighborhood during
the planning stage.
Patman said that the bill placed increased emphasis on aiding low- and moderate-income families by requiring that
a majority of all units provided in each community's future residential reuse urban  renewal projects must be
used for these income groups, including at least 20 percent for low-income families and individuals.
Most of the amendments offered to Title IV affected programs of grants and loans for rehabilitation. A limit of $150
million on annual appropriations for the loan program was accepted and the House also voted to set income
limitations for persons eligible for the loan program.
An amendment to delete an additional $1.4 billion authorized for urban  renewal in fiscal 1970 was rejected.
The House deleted a new program of interim assistance for blighted areas for which the Committee had approved
an authorization of $40 million—(Senate authorization: $20 million).
Lawrence G. Williams (R Pa.), sponsor of the amendment to delete the interim assistance program, said that in
appropriating such funds “all we are doing is encouraging inefficiency on the part of the local government or the
municipal government.“
Urban  Planning and Facilities—Title V. Patman said that Title V revised the comprehensive planning program
to provide planning assistance for rural areas. He said that the definition of comprehensive planning had been
broadened to “allow for full evaluation of human, as well as physical resources and needs.“
The bill increased the annual authorization for matching water and sewer grants from $200 million to $500 million.
Widnall said that he did not “particularly like” to increase authorizations beyond the departmental recommendations
but that he was “quite ready to make an exception” for the program. He criticized the Administration for giving the
program low priority.
National Housing  Partnerships—Title VIII. Patman said that some questions had been raised about whether
the national housing  partnerships provided for by the bill might “create monopolistic enterprises, confer special
privileges, and compete with existing organizations.” He said such criticism was unfounded and that no special
privileges were conferred on the partnerships.
Urban  Property Protection—Title X. William S. Moorhead (D Pa.) said that Title X provided “a carrot and stick
approach” to the problem of providing insurance in ghetto areas. “It says to the states, ‘If you will set up plans which
will guarantee everyone in your state a chance to get basic property insurance we—the Federal Government—will
offer to sell riot reinsurance to those insurance companies which participate in these plans,’” he said. He said that
without such legislation the states would not set up plans to make insurance more generally available.
Edward J. Patten (D N.J.) said, “Householders and shopkeepers by the thousands in the urban  cores of our older
7/2/09 1:37 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 22 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283833&type=hitlist&num=0
metropolitan areas are unable to purchase property insurance.” He said that many insurance companies and their
agents maintained maps outlining boundaries within which it was uneconomical to write property insurance policies
and that in such areas insurable risks were not distinguished from uninsurable risks.
Flood Insurance—Title XI. Hastings Keith (R Mass.) said that the bill's flood insurance program offered three main
advantages to property owners in those flood-prone areas which qualified for the program. These were that:
property owners would have immediate access to funds with which to rehabilitate or restore their flood-ravaged
property and would not have to rely on federal disaster relief funds; flood insurance would reduce the need for loans
and other temporary aids which impose long-term burdens on the borrowers; the program offered incentives which
would tend to discourage future building and investment in extraordinarily high risk areas and would encourage flood
prevention measures.
Mortgage Insurance for Nonprofit Hospitals—Title XII. Patman said that there was a serious shortage of hospital
facilities in the nation and that the Committee felt that a program of FHA mortgage insurance on hospitals
constructed by nonprofit groups would help relieve the situation. He said that the Committee had “no intention of in
any way undermining the very successful Hill-Burton grant program which has done an outstanding job but it
unfortunately has never been given adequate funds by the Congress to provide the hospital facilities which are
desperately needed in many communities.“
Miscellaneous—Title XIV. Two of the more important provisions of this Title were the model cities authorization
and the interest subsidy for college housing .
Patman said that “the innovative qualities of the first and second round model cities indicate that our cities are not
only willing to meet the challenge of the model cities program, but have the capability to succeed. We owe it to
these cities to see that their potential becomes reality by authorizing the $1 billion and the additional $12 million for
planning grants.“
The House July 10, by a 60–88 standing vote, rejected an amendment to cut the model cities authorization to $250
million.
Reuss said that “to the extent that we can bring private financing” into college housing  through the interest
subsidy program “we not only will be doing something for sound budgeting but for a great number of college
students.” He said that the program would have “a very small budgetary impact.“
The House July 10, by a 53–70 standing vote, rejected an amendment to eliminate the new subsidy program and to
change the existing program of direct loans for college housing .
Provisions
As passed by the House, S 3497:
Title I—Lower Income Housing . Established a homeownership assistance program for low- and moderate-
income families based on an interest rate subsidy. Stipulated that mortgages for housing  purchased under the
program would be made at market rates of interest and that the Government would pay the interest subsidy directly
to the institution making the loans.
Set the amount of subsidy under the program at the difference between 20 percent of the family's monthly income
and the required monthly payment under the mortgage for principal, interest, taxes, insurance and mortgage
insurance premium. Required, however, that the purchaser make payments at least equal to the payment that would
be required if the mortgage were made at a 1 percent rate.
Limited participation in the program to families whose income was not more than 30 percent higher than the income
ceiling for eligibility for public housing  in the area. Set a general limitation on the amount of the mortgage at
$15,000 with higher mortgages allowed in high cost areas and for large families.
Required that a participant's income be recertified at least every two years and that appropriate adjustments in the
assistance payment be made to reflect any changes.
Authorized FHA insurance of mortgages and mortgage payment subsidies for the purchase of housing  by
nonprofit sponsors for subsequent resale to low- or moderate-income home purchasers.
Authorized the Department of Housing  and Urban Development  (HUD) to provide counseling on care of a
home and budgeting of income for persons assisted under the program.
Authorized contracts for annual homeownership assistance payments aggregating not more than $75 million in fiscal
1969, $175 million in fiscal 1970, and $300 million in subsequent fiscal years.
Established a new program to make FHA home mortgage insurance available to low-income families who could not
qualify for such insurance under existing FHA programs because of their credit histories or irregular income patterns
but whom the Department of HUD considered satisfactory risks and capable of homeownership with the assistance
of counseling.
Gave the FHA more flexible authority to provide financing for the repair, rehabilitation, construction or purchase of
7/2/09 1:37 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 23 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283833&type=hitlist&num=0
Gave the FHA more flexible authority to provide financing for the repair, rehabilitation, construction or purchase of
property located in older, declining urban  areas which may not meet normal eligibility requirements.
Established a Special Risk Insurance Fund to insure mortgages under the above programs and under assistance for
rental and cooperative housing  (see Title II, below). Authorized appropriations to the fund to cover any losses.
Authorized the Secretary of HUD to provide nonprofit sponsors of low- and moderate-income housing  with
technical assistance and interest-free loans to cover certain preconstruction costs.
Created a National Homeownership Foundation (a government chartered private nonprofit corporation) to provide
technical and limited financial assistance to public and private organizations providing lower income housing .
Authorized the FHA to insure mortgages on large-scale experimental housing  projects for lower income families
under such programs as homeownership assistance, rent supplements and 221(d)(3).
Authorized the Secretary of HUD, in cooperation with the private insurance industry, to develop a plan to provide
insurance to help homeowners meet mortgage payments in periods of personal economic adversity.
Title II—Rental Housing  for Lower Income Families. (Similar to final bill except for eligibility standards; also
omitted grants for tenant services.)
Title III—Federal Housing  Administration Insurance Operations. Tightened regulations affecting default on FHA-
insured multi-family housing  mortgages.
Permitted the Secretary of HUD to insure supplemental loans to finance improvements to multifamily rental projects
(including nursing homes and housing  for the elderly) and group medical practice facilities financed with an
FHA-insured mortgage.
Title IV— Urban  Renewal. (Generally same as final Title V provisions, except provided no funds for interim
assistance.)
Title V— Urban  Planning and Facilities. Authorized a new category of assistance for “district” planning in rural
and other areas outside of metropolitan areas. Stipulated that such districts were to include all or part of at least one
county and of at least one other general-purpose unit of government, but not any part of a metropolitan area.
Increased the authorization for the overall urban  planning grants program by $35 million in fiscal 1969 and
$125 million in fiscal 1970. Specifically earmarked $20 million of the fiscal 1969 authorization and $10 million of the
fiscal 1970 authorization for district planning grants.
Extended to the new rural district planning areas eligibility to receive bonus grants of up to an additional 20 percent
of project costs under numerous federal grant programs when the HUD Secretary determined that such areas were
practicing comprehensive areawide planning. (Existing law, Section 205 of the 1966 Demonstration Cities and
Metropolitan Development Act , limited such assistance to metropolitan areas.) Also continued through fiscal
1970 the availability of the $75 million authorized for the program for fiscal 1967 and 1968 but denied by Congress
in appropriations acts for those two fiscal years.
Provided that any funds authorized but not appropriated through fiscal 1969 for basic water and sewer facilities,
neighborhood facilities and advance acquisition of land remain available through fiscal 1970. Raised annual
authorization for water and sewer facilities from $200 million to $500 million, thus providing a total of $885 million,
including unused authorizations, for this program.
Converted the funding provision for the open-space land program from contract authority to regular authorization for
appropriations. Authorized appropriation of the unused portion of the total $310 million in contract authority for the
program and authorized an additional $150 million for fiscal 1970.
Title VI— Urban  Mass Transportation. Authorized $190 million for fiscal 1970.
Permitted private transit companies to furnish up to 50 percent of the local share of the project cost of a mass
transit project, and up to 100 percent in some cases.
Extended for 10 months, through Oct. 1, 1969, the emergency grant program for mass transportation under which
requirements that full areawide planning be completed were waived.
Title VII—Secondary Mortgage Market. (Same as final Title VIII provisions.)
Title VIII—National Housing  Partnerships. (Same as final Title IX provisions.)
Title IX—Rural Housing . (Similar to final Title X provisions.)
Title X— Urban  Property Protection and Reinsurance. Authorized the Secretary of HUD to set up a program
to reinsure insurance companies against property losses resulting from riots or civil disorders. The program was to
be terminated in 1976.
Required the Secretary to set reinsurance premiums that would provide an aggregate fund in excess of the
estimated amount of insured riot losses during 1967.
7/2/09 1:37 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 24 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283833&type=hitlist&num=0
Specified that reinsurance would not be offered in states which did not provide, within a specified time, for sharing
some of the costs to the Federal Government of covering reinsured losses.
Required insurers reinsured under the program to cooperate with state insurance authorities in establishing and
carrying out statewide plans to assure fair access to insurance requirements (FAIR plans). (These plans were
designed to ensure that property owners were not denied insurance solely because of the area in which their
property was located.)
Provided that state FAIR plans be administered under the supervision of the state insurance authority. Set minimum
requirements for FAIR plans including:
Property insurance may not be denied without inspection of the property.
Insurers declining a risk or agreeing to provide coverage only if the property was improved must provide property
owners with a statement of reasons for refusal of coverage or improvements required for coverage.
Required state plans to include an all-industry placement facility to help agents and brokers to place insurance up to
the full insurable value of a property:
Authorized the Secretary to modify the criteria for state plans.
Authorized the Secretary of the HUD Department to borrow up to $150 million from the Treasury to pay reinsurance
claims in excess of the aggregate amount of reinsurance premiums received under the program. (The program was
expected to be generally self-supporting.)
Directed the Secretary to study means of assuring an adequate supply of burglary and theft insurance.
Title XI—National Flood Insurance.  (Generally same as final Title XIII provisions, except provided borrowing
authority of up to $150 million.)
Title XII—Mortgage Insurance for Nonprofit Hospitals. (Same as final Title XV provisions, except set $25-million
ceiling on such mortgages.)
Title XIII—Ten-Year Housing  Goal. (Same as final Title XVI provisions, except did not require report by
President.)
Title XIV—Miscellaneous. (Similar to final Title XVII provisions.)
AMENDMENTS ACCEPTED
July 9—Florence P. Dwyer (R N.J.)—Require the Secretary of Housing  and Urban Development  (HUD) to
report to Congress annually on areas of program administration and management which require improvement and to
recommend any necessary legislation. Voice vote.
John B. Anderson (R 111.)—Limit eligibility for the homeownership assistance program (Title I) to families whose
income was not more than 30 percent higher than the income ceiling for eligibility for public housing  in the
same area. Standing, 79–75: teller 118–101; roll-call, 271–137.
Charles Raper Jonas (R N.C.)—Require the Special Risk Insurance Fund (under Title I), the National Insurance 
Development  Fund, and the National Flood Insurance Fund to submit annual business-type budgets to Congress.
Voice.
W.E. Brock (R Tenn.)—Increase from 20 percent to 25 percent the maximum proportion of a family's income which
could be required to be spent on rent under the rent subsidy program. Standing, 40–42; teller, 81–75; standing,
217–112.
Anderson—Limit eligibility for the rent subsidy program (Title II) to families whose income was not more than 30
percent higher than the income ceiling for eligibility for public housing  in the same area. Standing, 77–60.
Brock—Provide that the maturity on FHA-insured mortgages on nursing home equipment could not be longer than
the use expectancy of such equipment. Voice.
Hervey G. Machen (D Md.)—Require the Department of HUD, before approving low-rental housing  projects
under the below-market interest rate program (221 (d)(3)), to request the local government to submit a statement of
the impact of the project on local public services and its relationship to local master plans. Voice.
Seymour Halpern (R N.Y.)—Delete provisions restricting rehabilitation loans and grants to stable areas. Voice.
Larry Winn Jr. (R Kan.)—Permit urban  renewal agencies purchasing property damaged by limestone quarry
subsidence to pay the value of the property prior to damage. Voice.
William F. Ryan (D N.Y.)— Provide that rehabilitation grants may be made through local private nonprofit agencies in
addition to local public agencies. Standing, 64–47.
7/2/09 1:37 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 25 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283833&type=hitlist&num=0
July 10—Paul A. Fino—Insure that the provisions of the Davis-Bacon Act  (requiring payment of no less than
the prevailing wages of the area on federally-aided construction projects) be applied to the new program of
insurance for supplemental loans on multifamily projects. Voice.
Henry S. Reuss (D Wis.)—Authorize relocation payments of up to $5,000 for homeowners displaced by urban
renewal or public housing  projects and increase authorized relocation payments for families displaced from
rental housing  to 81,000 over 2 years (from $500 over 1 year). Voice.
Fernand J. St. Germain (D R.I.)—Amendment to the pending Brock amendment—Limit annual authorization for
rehabilitation loans under Title IV to $150 million. (Brock's amendment set limit at $100 million.) Voice.
Brock—As amended by St. Germain amendment above—Limit annual authorization for rehabilitation loans under
Title IV to $150 million. Standing, 48–34.
Reuss—Amendment to the pending Brock amendment—Limit eligibility for rehabilitation loans to persons whose
income did not exceed the income level for eligibility for occupancy of rental housing  financed under the below-
market interest rate program (221(d)(3)). (Brock's amendment would have limited eligibility to persons with a
maximum income of $7,500.) Voice.
Brock—As amended by Reuss amendment above —Limit eligibility for rehabilitation loans to persons whose income
did not exceed the income level for eligibility for occupancy of 221(d)(3) projects. Voice.
Thomas G. Morris (D N.M.) — Include economic development  districts set up under the 1965 Public Works and
Economic Development Act  among the planning agencies eligible for comprehensive planning grants for 
urban  and rural development  under Title V. Voice.
William B. Widnall (R N.J.)—Repeal Section 204 of the Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan Development Act
of 1966 which required local and state governments to submit their applications for federal aid for planning or
construction of hospitals, airports, water supply and sewage facilities, transport facilities conservation, and other
projects to an areawide planning agency for review. Voice.
William J. Randall (D Mo.)—Broaden provision for making planning grants to organizations composed of public
officials representing the political jurisdictions within a metropolitan area to include grants for implementation of such
plans. Voice.
Robert G. Stephens Jr. (D Ga.)—Establish a Self-Help Housing  Land Development  Fund for making loans to
public or private nonprofit organizations for purchasing land for the construction of “self-help” housing . Voice.
Edward J. Patten (D N.J.)—Authorize the establishment of a FAIR plan under Title X in the District of Columbia.
Standing, 65–48; teller, 87–68.
Jonas—Rescind unused portion of the $500 million in borrowing authority authorized in 1956 for a flood insurance
program. (The 1956 program was not implemented but borrowing authority of $150 million was retained for the new
program.) Voice.
Brock—Provide that the maturity on FHA-insured mortgages on hospital equipment could not be longer than the
use expectancy of such equipment. Voice.
Widnall—Authorize the Secretary of HUD to contract with private as well as government organizations for the
purpose of obtaining information on flood plain areas and determining probable flood-caused losses for such areas.
Voice.
Peter H.B. Frelinghuysen (R N.J.)—Extend hospital mortgage insurance provisions to cover permanent financing or
refinancing for hospitals constructed since Jan. 1, 1966. Voice.
Richard T. Hanna (D Calif.)—Substitute for the pending St. Germain amendment—Delete authority given to savings
and loan associations to loan up to $5,000 for the construction of new houses (primarily vacation homes). (St.
Germain's amendment would have deleted authorization for loans for repair or improvements in addition to
construction.) Voice.
St. Germain—As revised by Hanna amendment above—Delete authorization for savings and loan associations to
loan up to $5,000 for the construction of new houses. Voice.
Widnall—Permit the same financial institutions which compete for issues such as those of the Inter-American 
Development  Bank to compete for bond issues for housing , university or dormitory purposes. Voice.
Byron G. Rogers (D Colo.)—Provide for refinancing of certain projects under the housing  for the elderly program.
Voice.
Widnall—Delete provision retiring the capital stock of the U.S. Housing  Authority. Voice.
AMENDMENTS REJECTED
7/2/09 1:37 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 26 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283833&type=hitlist&num=0
July 9—Henry B. Gonzalez (D Texas)—Amend Widnall amendment (below) to authorize contracts of $50 million for
refinancing existing mortgages under the homeownership program. Voice.
Widnall—Extend provisions of homeownership program to include refinancing of existing mortgages. Standing 45–
62; teller 74–85.
Brock—Increase from 20 percent to 25 percent the maximum proportion of a family's income which could be
required to be spent on mortgage payments and related expenses under the homeownership program. Voice.
Charles S. Gubser (R Calif.)—Amend Mailliard amendment (below) to limit such guarantees to $100 million. Voice.
William S. Mailliard (R Calif.)—Authorize the U.S. Government to guarantee bonds or debentures issued by a public
or private nonprofit organization to help finance projects for the rehabilitation or construction of housing  for low-
income families. Standing, 29–44.
H.R. Gross (R Iowa)—Delete new program of grants to local housing  agencies for tenant services (such as
counseling). (This amendment was accepted July 10 on a recommittal motion vote.) Standing, 66–69; teller 84–84.
Lawrence G. Williams (R Pa.)—Reduce maximum mortgage interest subsidy for the construction or rehabilitation of
low-rent housing  (under Title II). Standing, 37–80.
Brock—Cut the increased authorization for low-rent public housing  from $100 million to $50 million for fiscal
1968 and from $150 million to $75 million for fiscal 1969 and 1970. Teller, 69–92.
Williams—Provide that no new rent supplement contracts could be made after July 31, 1968. Standing, 54–74;
teller, 79–94.
Glenn R. Davis (R Wis.)—Provide that aggregate contracts for annual contributions to low-rent public housing
projects may not exceed the amounts approved in appropriation acts. (Currently contracts may be made on the
basis of the authorization, prior to appropriation.) Teller, 88–95.
Machen—Require the Secretary of HUD to notify the local government of applications for below-market rate
mortgages on high density rental housing , to obtain from the local government a statement of the impact on the
project on public services and to approve the project only if it would not place an unreasonable burden on public
services. Voice.
July 10—Williams—Delete increased authorization for urban  renewal of $1.4 billion as of July 1, 1969. Voice.
Williams—Delete new program of interim assistance for areas scheduled for clearance, rehabilitation or code
enforcement. (This amendment was subsequently accepted by a recommittal motion vote.) Standing, 51–61; teller
88–98.
Williams—Delete the new program of comprehensive planning grants for rural areas and other planning provisions
of Title V. Voice.
Durward G. Hall (R Mo.)—Amend the Urban  Mass Transportation Act  of 1964 to permit certain employees’
rights provisions to be waived in the case of transportation systems which have been publicly owned since passage
of the Act . Standing 31–40; teller 82–89.
Frank Annunzio (D Ill.)—Provide that federal riot insurance would not be available to insurance companies which
canceled policies after April 1, 1968, and failed to reinstate them within 30 days after enactment of the bill. Voice.
Thomas L. Ashley (D Ohio)—Substitute language in provision amending the Home Owners’ Loan Act  of 1933 to
ensure that the traditional definition of savings and loan association shares and dividends be retained. Voice.
Brock—Delete a new program of grants to subsidize interest rates on loans for the construction of college 
housing  and to change the existing program of direct loans for college housing . Standing, 53–70.
Roman C. Pucinski (D Ill.)—Provide that regulations under the bill could not go into effect until 30 days after being
published in the Federal Register and not unless interested persons had been given an opportunity to submit their
views at a public hearing. Standing, 54–78.
James Harvey (R Mich.)—Direct the Secretary of HUD to study the feasibility of establishing a national building code.
Voice.
Gross—Direct the Secretary of the Treasury to levy a 10 percent surtax “to defray the costs of the numerous
giveaways and experiments authorized in this bill.” Standing, 36–80.
Brock—Cut the authorization for the model cities program through fiscal 1970 from $1 billion to $250 million.
Standing, 60–88.
Jonas—Reduce each authorization in the bill by 10 percent. Standing, 66–91; teller 93–123.
7/2/09 1:37 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 27 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283833&type=hitlist&num=0
Widnall—Delete the provision authorizing an additional Assistant Secretary of HUD. Voice.
Conference
REPORT. Differences between the House and Senate versions of S 3497 were resolved in a conference report (H
Rept 1785) filed July 23.
On the major difference in the bills—the income eligibility limits for the homeownership and rental assistance plans
—conferees arrived at a compromise settlement. Eligibility generally was to be limited to families whose incomes
were no greater than 35 percent above the local income ceilings for admittance to public housing , plus $300
per minor child. The Senate bill limited eligibility to families whose incomes were less than 70 percent of the local
eligibility ceiling for the BMIR program; the House measure limited coverage to families whose incomes were no
more than 30 percent greater than the local income ceiling for continued occupancy in public housing  (which
was higher than the ceiling for admittance).
In another major action, conferees agreed to the Senate provision, dropped by the House, authorizing federal
assistance to developers of new towns and new communities. Conferees also restored Senate provisions requiring
full disclosure in the interstate sale of subdivided undeveloped land and providing interim urban  renewal
assistance to blighted areas where substantial permanent clearance is planned but not yet under way. Under the
latter program, however, the authorization was cut to $15 million per year instead of the Senate's $20 million.
Conferees also accepted a Senate provision, dropped by the House, authorizing FHA mortgage insurance on
vacation housing  and a provision added by the House after Senate action, which authorized mortgage
insurance on nonprofit hospitals. Conferees also agreed to a compromise increase of $150 million for basic water
and sewer grants in fiscal 1969 and an extension of the program into fiscal 1970 with a $115 million allotment. The
House provided an increase of $300 million for each of the fiscal years 1968 and 1969, and the Senate only a $115
million authorization for fiscal 1970.
FINAL ACTION. The Senate July 25 by voice vote and the House the following day by a 226–135 roll-call vote
adopted the conference report on S 3497. The actions cleared the measure for the President's signature. (See vote
160, p. 72-H.)
In discussion of the bill, Senate Banking and Currency Committee Chairman John J. Sparkman (D Ala.) lauded
Congress for passing “the most comprehensive and far-reaching bill” it had “ever considered.” Rep. Byron G. Rogers
(D Colo.) said, “At one time the moon was out of reach. This is no longer true. Now, with this bill, a decent home
will be within the reach of every American family.“
Features
Homeownership Program Explained
John W., who has an income of $4,200, has applied for federal assistance under the new home-ownership program
authorized by the 1968 Housing  and Urban Development Act . His income is well within the $6,000 local
limitation for program eligibility, so assistance is approved. John goes to a local lending institution and obtains a
mortgage loan of $12,000, to be repaid over a 35-year period. The Government draws up a contract with the private
lender to pay him a monthly interest subsidy on John's mortgage.
Assuming a market interest rate of 6–3/4 percent, John's required monthly payment is $99.66. As long as his
income remains the same, his payment will be $70 (20 percent of his monthly income) and the Government subsidy
will be $29.66. His income will be recertified every two years, and appropriate adjustments will be made in the
federal assistance payments to reflect any change.
Federal Housing  Programs for Low and Moderate-Income Families Construction and
Rehabilitation Starts
 Units Fiscal
1962
Units Fiscal
1963
Units Fiscal
1964
Units Fiscal
1965
Units Fiscal
1966
Units Fiscal
1967
Low-rent public housing       
New 27,811 20,802 25,841 31,899 30,367 26,800
Rehabilitated 575 458 158 1,432 582 1,900
Turnkey      900
Other (leasing, acquisition)      5,500
Housing  for elderly 1,224 2,098 3,059 4,476 4,104 8,000
FHA-221(d)(3) Below-market interest
rate
      
New 656 4,581 11,325 14,414 13,510 13,200
Rehabilitated 563 1,177 1,207 963 628 500
Rent supplements      900
7/2/09 1:37 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 28 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283833&type=hitlist&num=0
   TotalS 30,829 29,116 41,590 53,184 49,191 57,700
SOURCE: Housing  and Urban Development  Department
‘Rat Debate,’ Lobbying Keys to Passage of Housing  Bill
Although they did not know it at the time, the Representatives who laughed the Administration's rat control bill off
the House floor in the summer of 1967 may have paved the way for passage of the 1968 housing  bill—the
most far-reaching measure of its type ever passed by Congress.
Although other factors figured into the passage of the bill, Congressional Quarterly's Capitol Hill, Administration and
lobby sources generally considered the 1967 rat debate to be the “turning point” for massive new programs of
federal urban  aid. In contrast to the 1967 House rejection of the $20-million rat bill, Congress July 26, 1968,
cleared the big $5.3 billion omnibus housing  measure (S 3497) with limited and rarely vigorous debate. (For
1967 action on rat bill, see 1967 Almanac p. 446.)
“The rat debate really dramatized the urban  problem,” one House Republican source told CQ. “At a time when
Newark was burning, Congressmen were saying that ‘the rat smart thing for us to do is to vote down this rat bill rat
now.’ After the public outcry over that performance, it would have been political suicide for Republicans to try to
defeat the housing  bill this year.“
Another major reason for the bill's easy passage appeared to be the fact that is 17 titles included programs of
benefit to a wide array of special interest groups.
Strong bipartisan support for the measure developed when the Senate Banking and Currency Committee, which had
studied the bill for almost 18 months, reported out programs similar to proposals originated by Republicans. The
heart of the bill—its homeowner's assistance program—was originally introduced early in the 1967 session by Sen.
Charles H. Percy (R III.) and Rep. William B. Widnall (R N.J.), amid widespread fanfare on Capitol Hill and in the
press. Although the Committee substantially reworked the Republican plan, GOP members still claimed credit for
giving impetus to the measure. Other major Republican programs in the bill were the flood insurance title and a
provision authorizing federal mortgage insurance for private nonprofit hospitals.
A major surprise on the bill was that debate never developed over President Johnson's rent supplement and model
cities programs—two controversial “Great Society” plans which had aroused vigorous GOP opposition in recent
sessions of Congress. Although the bill authorized a broad expansion of both programs, neither became the subject
of the heated debates of the past. The erosion of GOP opposition was thought to have resulted from a malaise over
the narrow defeats suffered by Republicans on the past battles over the issue and an increasing awareness that
private enterprise would play a major role in implementing both programs.
One House Republican aide said the “sheer enormity of the bill made it difficult to defeat. On a bill this big, you can
only sight in on one or two things you don't like. There were Members who didn't care for some of the aspects of
the bill, but they were never able to get together on any one thing.“
Income Limits Debate. The only major floor debate in either chamber developed in the House over the income
limits for the homeownership and rental assistance programs.
The Administration had proposed that the HUD Secretary be given the authority to set income limits for eligibility
under the two programs with the understanding that the limits set would follow those currently used in the below-
market interest rate (BMIR) program. The upper range of incomes of persons aided under BMIR was generally
around $7,000, but could be considerably higher for large families and families living in high-cost areas. The limits
were higher than those envisioned under the original Percy bill.
In consultation with John C. Williamson, lobbyist for the National Assn. of Real Estate Boards (NAREB), Rep. John
B. Anderson (R III.) drafted an amendment to limit eligibility under the homeownership program to persons whose
income was not more than 30 percent higher than the ceiling for occupancy in public housing  in their area (a
level that was not substantially less than the BMIR limitations). The amendment, opposed by the Administration and
the National Assn. of Home Builders, carried July 10 by a 271–137 roll-call vote. (See vote 127, p. 58-H.) The
House the same day by a 77–60 standing vote accepted another amendment by Anderson to place the same
income limits on the rental assistance program authorized by the bill.
Despite the Administration's opposition, a high HUD official told CQ that Anderson had “saved the day” by
introducing amendments that could give Republicans the opportunity to vote against subsidizing moderate-income
families and yet retain a “rather wide spectrum of income eligibility limits.“
New Towns. One of the biggest payoffs for Administration strategy came on the provision for assisting developers
of new towns and new communities—a proposal that had long been opposed by the U.S. Conference of Mayors. In
a calculated move, the Administration neutralized the mayors by making clear that assistance under the program
could be provided for additions to the edge of a city as well as entire new towns in the countryside. This wilted the
mayors’ opposition, which since 1964 has been predicated on fears that the provision would lure middle-income
families from the cities, allowing them to deteriorate.
The Administration averted another possible conflict over the new towns plan by limiting appropriations for special
assistance that could be provided for public works developments in the new towns and new communities.
7/2/09 1:37 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 29 of 29http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1283833&type=hitlist&num=0
Reinsurance Provision. One of the biggest of lobby victories came on the reinsurance provision, which authorized
the HUD Secretary to reinsure private insurance companies against property losses resulting from riots or civil
disorders. The provision was proposed by the American Insurance Assn., representing the bulk of the nation's
casualty insurers, with an estimated 80–85 percent of outstanding insurance on the nations’ urban  properties.
One staff member on the House Banking and Currency Committee told CQ the insurers “had to get that provision
because the state insurance commissioners were really breathing down their necks about cancelling so many
policies.” He said their lobby campaign was a “subtle” one, with local businessmen frequently calling their
Representatives and warning that the policies likely would be cancelled unless the provision went through.
Savings and Loans. Vigorous lobbying by the savings and loan industry resulted in House and conference
approval of a provision authorizing S&Ls broader lending authority, including authority to lend for seasonal homes
and for home appliances under certain conditions. (S&L lending under existing law generally is limited to residential 
housing .) The two major pressure groups representing the S&Ls—the National Savings and Loan League and
the National League of Insured Savings Institutions—sought an even broader lending authority, but arranged the
fallback position after the broader measure became stalled in the House Banking and Currency Committee. The
American Bankers Assn. (ABA) lobbied hard against the provision.
Interstate Land Sales. A major victory for the National Assn. of Homebuilders came when it persuaded the Senate
Banking and Currency Committee to rewrite the provision providing protection for interstate land sales, which would
have been administered by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under a bill (S 275) pending before the
Committee since early 1967.
The Homebuilders also beat back attempts by the National Assn. of Real Estate Boards to make existing housing
as well as new construction generally eligible for assistance under the bill's homeownership program.
Document Citation
"Housing Bill  Provides Home-Buying, Riot, Other Aid." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal68-
1283833. Originally published in CQ Almanac 1968 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1969).
http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal68-1283833 (accessed July 2, 2009).
Document ID: cqal68-1283833
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal68-1283833
© 1969, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
