7/2/09 2:34 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1291789&type=hitlist&num=8
Stock Market and Financial
Services
2004 Stock Option Accountability
2001 SEC Law a Win for Wall Street
1999 Major Overhaul Enacted Of Rules
Governing the Financial Services
Industry
1998 Loophole Fix Moves Class-Action
Securities Suits From State to
Federal Courts
1998 Financial Services Overhaul Dies
in Senate, A Victim of Friendly
Fire
1997 Financial Services Overhaul Stalls
1996 Securities Regulation Provisions
1996 Financial Services Provisions
1996 Congress Streamlines Securities
Rules
1994 Other Securities-Related Bills
Considered in 1994
1994 Financial Services Trade Bill
Falters at Session's End
1993 Financial Services Bill Seeks To
Open Markets
1993 Bill Tightens Regulation of
Government Bond Market
1992 Government Securities Bill Is
Quashed
1991 Government Securities Bill
Considered
1990 Market Control Authority of the
Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) Increased
1990 Congress Passes Bills
Strengthening Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC)
1989 Securities Arbitration
1989 Market Reform Stalled
1988 Stock Market Regulation
1988 Insider-Trading Bill
1986 Securities Dealer Regulations
1985 Government Securities Firms
1982 Commodity Futures Trading Bill
Cleared
1980 Securities Investor Privacy
1977 Investor Protection
1975 Overhaul Of Securities Industry
Approved
1974 Rules Committee Blocks
Securities Bill
1974 Municipal Bonds Regulation
1973 Stock Exchange Membership
1973 Securities Transactions
1973 Securities Thefts
1973 Federal Financing Bank
1972 Securities Transactions
1972 Securities Industry
1971 Securities Thefts: Mafia Moves on
Wall Street
1971 Securities Industry
1970 Securities Exemption
1970 Protection for Stockholders
1970 Mutual Funds: New Controls
After Four-Year Delay
1970 Congress Clears Securities
Investor Protection Bill
1969 Securities Hearings
Congress Clears Securities Investor
Protection Bill
An article from CQ Almanac 1970
Document Outline
Provisions
Background
House
Senate
Conference Report
Final Action
Features
Congress Dec. 22 cleared for the President's signature a bill (HR 19333—PL
91 - 598 ), the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970.
The bill established a Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC) and
an insurance fund, financed by the securities industry, to protect customers
from losses (up to $50,000 each) occurring when brokers become insolvent.
The bill did not protect brokers from losses. Nor did it protect customers from
losses in the value of their securities due to market fluctuations.
The $50,000-loss coverage was to compensate customers for loss of cash
and securities left on deposit with brokers who became insolvent and which
were entangled in the brokers' assets. Fully paid-for securities which were
successfully traced and claimed in a case of insolvency would not be included
in the $50,000 maximum. Coverage of cash losses was limited to $20,000 per
customer account.
All brokers and dealers registered under Federal securities statutes were
required to become members of the SIPC, as were all members of national
securities exchanges except those who, as brokers, dealt exclusively with
mutual funds, variable annuities or investment advice to mutual funds and
insurance companies.
The bill required assessment of members to: (1) establish an insurance fund
of $75 million within 120 days through a combination of existing stock
exchange trust funds, assessments and lines of bank credit; and (2) to
increase the fund to $150 million and retire the bank credit.
The bill also provided for:
Emergency backstopping of the fund with loans of up to $1 billion from the
U.S. Treasury.
Supervision of the SIPC by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Greater SEC authority to regulate practices of the securities industry, both
directly and through the SIPC.
Legal procedures by which the SIPC could seek court-ordered liquidation of
an insolvent brokerage and proceed to pay customers' claims.
Administration officials participated in drafting the bill and favored its
enactment.
Provisions
As cleared by Congress, HR 19333:
SIPC
Created a Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC) as a private
nonprofit corporation to provide financial protection for customers against loss
 
7/2/09 2:34 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1291789&type=hitlist&num=8
1969 Securities Hearings
1969 Mutual Funds
1968 Securities Disclosure
1968 Over-The-Counter Securities
1968 Institutional Investors Study
1967 Securities Disclosure
1967 Hearings Held on S.E.C. Bill to
Regulate Mutual Funds
1965 Securities Fees
1964 Controls Over Stock Issues and
Dealers Strengthened
1963 SEC Study Submitted; Senate
Approves Bill
1962 S.E.C. Activities
1955 Stock Market Study
1955 Government Securities
1954 Changes In SEC Law
nonprofit corporation to provide financial protection for customers against loss
due to brokerage insolvencies.
Required all broker-dealers to be members of the SIPC except those
confining their activities to sale of mutual fund shares, variable annuities and
insurance or professional advice to mutual funds and insurance companies.
Vested control of the SIPC in a seven-member board of directors, five of
whom would be appointed by the President—three representing the securities
industry and two representing the general public—and one each appointed by
the Secretary of the Treasury from the Treasury Department and by the
Federal Reserve Board from its officials and employees.
Insurance Fund
Established an insurance fund to insure each customer account with an SIPC
member against loss due to broker insolvency; insured cash on deposit with a
member firm up to $20,000 and cash and securities together to a maximum of
$50,000, in addition to fully paid-for securities traced and claimed.
Required that the fund contain $75 million within 120 days of enactment, of which $65 million was to be in the form of a
line of credit from banks and $10 million was to be cash—$3 million from existing stock exchange trust funds and $7
million from an initial assessment of members of one-eighth of 1 percent of gross revenues.
Required the SIPC to increase the fund to $150 million by assessments; required lines of credit to be retired and a
minimum balance of $100 million to be kept in the fund unless the SEC required a larger amount or authorized a smaller
amount.
Established a maximum assessment on brokerages of 1 percent of gross revenues; prohibited assessments of more
than 0.5 percent unless the SIPC determined that a larger assessment would not adversely affect the financial condition
of its members.
Authorized the SIPC, through the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), to borrow up to $1 billion from the U.S.
Treasury.
Authorized the SEC to impose a transactions fee on securities purchases of more than $5,000 to ensure prompt
repayment of a loan from the Treasury.
Exempted from assessment revenues from sale of real estate and oil, gas and other mineral rights except those
required by law to be registered with the SEC.
Exempted from assessment revenues from the insurance business, distribution of mutual fund shares and investment
advisory services.
Regulation
Authorized the SEC to examine and oversee the SIPC and to require periodic reports on its activities.
Authorized the SEC to require the SIPC to adopt new rules or change existing rules.
Authorized the SIPC to require periodic reports of its members' activities, to be made through members' self-regulatory
organizations recognized by the SEC.
Authorized the SEC to require the self-regulatory organizations to adopt or amend rules governing examination of and
reporting on the financial condition of members.
Required the SEC to establish regulations governing financial responsibility and related practices of brokers, specifically
including handling of customers' cash and securities and establishment of reserve requirements for cash on deposit.
Liquidation
Authorized the SIPC to initiate court proceedings by asking for appointment of a trustee to liquidate a broker-dealer
considered to be in danger of failing to meet its financial obligations to its customers.
Provided for liquidation proceedings under bankruptcy law.
Required appointed trustees to distribute paid-for securities and securities held for customers' accounts and to complete
open contractual commitments of brokers in liquidation; authorized the SIPC to advance funds to meet such
commitments.
Required the SIPC to advance money from the insurance fund to meet customer claims.
Miscellaneous
Required the SEC to study unsound practices of brokers and report to Congress within a year on steps taken to correct
those practices and legislation needed to end them.
Required public access to information about the operations of the SIPC except to the extent that the SIPC or the SEC
determined that disclosure would not be in the public interest.
7/2/09 2:34 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1291789&type=hitlist&num=8
determined that disclosure would not be in the public interest.
Background
The dramatic growth of the securities industry during the 1960s produced strains as well as profits for stock brokers
and dealers. As the volume of trading increased, brokerage companies found it increasingly difficult to fulfill  orders
promptly and correctly. (Background and related hearings, 1969 Almanac p. 928)
When in December 1968 the stock market began the decline which, with interruptions, continued until mid-1970,
much of the industry's financial position deteriorated. Brokerage failures generated speculation about the financial
condition of other brokers. (Box on broker-dealers, opposite column)
The unsatisfactory condition of the industry was underscored in April when the SEC authorized brokers and dealers
to levy a surcharge of $15 or 50 percent over existing commissions.
The condition of some brokerages was aggravated by thefts of securities. Aided by the pressure of high volume,
successful thefts and frauds and other unaccounted-for disappearances of securities cost brokerages an estimated
$45 million in 1969.
Problem. All securities investors had to be prepared in the falling market for the possibility of losses—at minimum,
temporary or paper losses—in the value of the investments in their portfolios.
The prevailing use of customers' balances and securities in the conduct of business raised the threat of another
type of loss to investors in the case of failing brokerages. If a broker's assets were not sufficient to cover his
liabilities, customers' funds and securities might not be recovered.
The New York exchange's president, Robert W. Haack, told the Senate Banking and Currency Committee on April 17
that no public customer of the exchange had lost any money due to mismanagement or insolvency of a broker.
But sources on the exchange said later on it was impossible to predict whether the statement would continue to be
true.
Stock exchanges had begun in 1964 to assess their members and create trust funds to meet claims arising from
broker-dealer insolvencies. Their aim was to prevent customer losses because of brokerage failures.
The New York Stock Exchange's trust fund, by far the largest at $25 million, was augmented in mid-1970 with the
transfer of an additional $30 million from the exchange building fund. But the New York exchange committed itself
as the year progressed to “make whole” the customers of 10 brokerages in liquidation. Its spokesmen said that
there was no way to determine whether the entire fund was committed because the actual cost could not be
estimated accurately until the assets and liabilities of the firms were sorted out.
If the existing trust fund proved adequate to cover the losses of the 10 brokerages, there were at least two other
member brokers in liquidation whose customers might ultimately have claims against it.
The problem was dramatized again Oct. 30 with the announcement that Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Inc.
would take over the troubled Goodbody & Co., itself a major brokerage house, and that New York Stock Exchange
members would be assessed an additional $30 million to indemnify Merrill Lynch in the acquisition.
Failures hit other exchanges, too, Eleven were reported on the Pacific coast. Trust funds of the other exchanges
were far smaller than that of the New York exchange.
Anticipating that demands on its trust fund would be severe in 1970, the New York exchange prepared a plan
during late 1969 to increase assessments of its members. According to exchange sources, the fund was about to be
increased to at least $100 million when legislation to protect brokerage customers became active in 1970.
Legislation. The slow progress of the legislation hampered the New York exchange, in the view of some of its
officials, since they believed they could not increase assessments or open new lines of credit while the bills were
pending.
Sen. Edmund S. Muskie (D Maine) introduced a bill (S 2348) on June 9, 1969, to create a Federal Broker-Dealer
Insurance Corporation. His proposal was to insure securities customers against losses in a manner comparable to
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation's protection of bank depositors. Similar bills were introduced in 1969 and
1970 in the House. The SEC developed a proposal, as did a Joint Securities Industry Task Force representing the
stock exchanges and broker-dealer organizations, including the NASD.
The commission and the task force reached a compromise which was drafted as another bill, HR 18458, and
introduced July 14. The compromise was incorporated into Muskie's bill. The House Interstate and Foreign
Commerce Committee drafted a new bill, HR 19333, modifying the compromise proposal.
Among other provisions the compromise bills included clarification of procedures for liquidation of failing brokerages
by authorizing the SIPC to initiate court proceedings to liquidate a broker-dealer considered to be in danger of failing
to meet his financial obligations to his customers.
Stock exchanges have been able to move failing brokerages into court-ordered liquidation through their power of
suspension. Since suspension from the exchange is equivalent to cutting off a firm's source of income, a brokerage
is not in a strong position to resist. The bills vested the SIPC with statutory authority to seek liquidation. Its authority
would take priority over any other.
Provisions were included for prompt repayment of any funds borrowed from the Treasury. But the public financial
backing afforded the SIPC eliminated the threat that securities customers might be jeopardized, through insolvency
of their brokers, if the financial condition of the securities industry reached the point where it could no longer support
7/2/09 2:34 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1291789&type=hitlist&num=8
of their brokers, if the financial condition of the securities industry reached the point where it could no longer support
a trust fund adequate to meet claims.
House
Committee Action
HEARINGS. The House Interstate and Foreign Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce and Finance held hearings
in June and July on a bill (HR 13308) to establish a Federal insurance corporation to protect investors in securities
from losses due to insolvency on the part of brokers and dealers.
The bill was similar to Muskie's bill, S 2348, on which the Senate Banking and Currency Subcommittee on
Securities had begun hearings April 16. When the House hearings opened, a proposal by the Joint Securities
Industry Task Force was expected imminently.
Testimony June 4
Hamer H. Budge, chairman, Securities and Exchange Commission:
There are a number of Federal, state and industry regulations to protect the interests of customers in their dealings
with brokers and dealers. Despite these, customers may be exposed to substantial risks resulting from insolvency or
financial mismanagement by a firm or its employees. The major securities exchanges have established trust funds to
protect customers. But they are voluntary; the exchanges maintain they have no legal obligation to customers of
member firms. Customers of firms which are not exchange members receive no benefit.
“This, then, is the situation confronting the securities industry and the investing public. It is not, I suggest, a situation
in which investors can assume that their securities and funds in the hands of broker-dealers are adequately
safeguarded in the event the firm suffers severe financial reverses. There would seem to be little question that some
form of comprehensive insurance system would be indicated.”
Industry is working on a proposal to establish its own protection program. The Commission has urged the industry to
complete it as soon as possible. Sen. Edmund S. Muskie (D Maine) has introduced a comprehensive amendment to
his bill (S 2348), and the Commission is currently evaluating it.
“We believe that legislation to provide investor protection should be promptly adopted…. We would like to examine
the industry proposal if it is submitted promptly. But, if it is not, we will shortly be prepared to give you our
comments in detail—in fact, in the form of legislation should you so desire.”
June 15
Ralph D. DeNunzio, vice chairman, Board of Governors of the New York Stock Exchange, and chairman of the Joint
Securities Industry Task Force:
A task force composed of representatives from seven industry organizations was created to develop a plan to protect
public customers of securities firms. The concepts of the proposal are designed to “maintain public confidence in the
nation's securities markets by assuring guaranteed payments to public customers, and without at the same time
creating a vast new governmental agency.”
A Federally chartered membership corporation, the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC) should be
formed. Its primary purposes would be to “cover claims of customers in the event of financial difficulties of a broker-
dealer, and to consult and cooperate with the self-regulatory organizations.”
Any broker-dealer registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 would be eligible for membership.
Basically, the plan would provide for prompt and orderly liquidation (or in certain cases “rehabilitation without resort
to liquidation”) of a broker-dealer firm which is “unable to demonstrate that it meets applicable net capital
requirements.”
SIPC would be financed by its members without resort to any borrowings from the Treasury Department, although it
would be entitled to do so, provided that the aggregate amount outstanding at any time would not exceed $1 billion.
Investment and other income of SIPC would be tax-exempt.
The proposal expands on existing procedures for self regulation in the securities industry, while at the same time “it
recognizes the need for governmental supervision.”
June 16
Budge:
There are substantial areas of agreement between the industry's and the Commission's positions. There also are
major differences. Contrary to the industry proposal, the Commission believes it should have adequate additional
authority to govern broker-dealers' custody and use of customers' securities and free credit balances, to compel self-
regulatory organizations to change rules and practices concerning execution of its regulations and to require reports,
and to oversee the proposed corporation.
Further, the industry's proposals for protecting Government funds are inadequate and there is question whether
initial financing would be adequate. The Commission's plan would give the corporation broader discretion to
determine when it is necessary to move to protect investors and the corporation's funds and to act by seeking a
court-appointed trustee.
“If these problems cannot be resolved, we believe it might be necessary to abandon the concept of a private
corporation and to vest the insurance function and related matters in the Commission.” The SEC has prepared a
preliminary draft of a bill taking that approach.
7/2/09 2:34 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1291789&type=hitlist&num=8
July 9
Budge:
The Commission and the task force, which represents the New York, American, Midwest and Pacific stock
exchanges, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Investment Bankers Association of America and
Association of Stock Exchange Firms, have resolved their differences and drafted a bill for submission to the
Committee to create a Securities Investor Protection Corporation. The major features of the proposal are:
Coverage of securities customer losses up to $50,000 per account, including interdealer and bank transactions for the
account of customers and in addition to fully paid-for securities successfully traced and claimed, in the event of failure of
a broker-dealer.
Creation of a nonprofit SIPC to which all registered brokers, dealers, and exchange members would be required to
belong and contribute.
SIPC authority to require exchanges to examine their members' financial conditions, to make loans to members in
danger of failing to meet obligations to customers and to obtain court-appointed trustees for members which have failed
or are in danger of failing to meet their obligations to customers.
SEC authority to review and require changes in SIPC regulations, and broader-than-existing SEC authority to require
examination of and reporting on the financial condition of members and to establish safeguards to guarantee the
financial responsibility of broker-dealers.
Initial financing of $75 million, consisting of $65 million in bank credit, $3 million from existing stock exchange trust
funds and $7 million in assessments of members. The funding would be doubled within five years, through
assessments.
Authorization of a $1-billion standby credit from the U.S. Treasury, and Treasury authority to levy assessments against
investors if necessary to repay extensions of Federal credit.
Bruce K. MacLaury, Deputy Under Secretary of the Treasury for monetary affairs:
The authority to levy assessments—up to 20 cents per $1,000 in equity stock transactions, under the bill— is
needed, even though assessments against members probably would be sufficient for repayment, because $1 billion
in public funds is potentially at stake. Assessments of customers would be collected by brokers. The maximum fee,
on the basis of 1969 transactions, would yield about $37 million. The corporation would be authorized to levy
assessments up to 1/2 of 1 percent of annual gross revenue of member firms to provide funds for normal re-
payment of Treasury extensions of credit. For 1969 the maximum levy would have yielded $25 million.
DeNunzio:
The draft bill reflecting the task force agreement with the SEC provides protection for customers while preserving
the principle of self-regulation which has prevailed in the securities business since 1934. The procedures included
for liquidation of failing broker-dealers are “a significant improvement” over existing law. The bill allows flexibility to
accommodate future changes in handling of securities. It should maintain public confidence in the securities
markets.
REPORT. The House Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee Oct. 21 reported a bill (HR 19333—H Rept 
91 -1613) establishing a Securities Investor Protection Corporation to protect investors from loss due to broker-
dealer insolvency. HR 19333 was a clean bill drafted by the Subcommittee.
A new version of S 2348, based on the joint proposal of the SEC and the task force, had been reported by the
Senate Banking and Currency Committee Sept. 21 (S Rept 91 -1218).
Provisions. As reported by the Committee, HR 19333:
Created the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC), a private nonprofit membership corporation to provide
financial protection for customers of broker-dealers.
Required all broker-dealers to be members of the corporation except those confining their activities to sale of mutual
fund shares, variable annuities and insurance or to providing investment advice to mutual funds and insurance
companies.
Vested control of the SIPC, except during periods when it had an outstanding loan from the U.S. Treasury, in a seven-
member board of directors, five of whom would be appointed by the securities industry and two by the President.
Required the President, when the SIPC received a loan of public funds, to appoint four additional members to the board.
Established an insurance fund to insure each customer of an SIPC member against loss due to insolvency up to
$50,000, in addition to paid-for securities successfully traced and claimed.
Required the fund to reach $75 million within 120 days of enactment, of which $65 million was expected to be in the
form of a line of credit from banks and $10 million was to be cash—$3 million from cash on hand in existing stock
exchange trust funds and $7 million from an assessment against the 1969 gross revenues of members.
Required the SIPC to increase the fund by assessments to $150 million; required lines of credit to be retired and a
minimum balance of $100 million to be kept in the fund unless the SEC required a larger or authorized a smaller
amount.
Authorized the SIPC, through the SEC, to borrow up to $1 billion from the U.S. Treasury.
7/2/09 2:34 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1291789&type=hitlist&num=8
Authorized the SIPC, through the SEC, to borrow up to $1 billion from the U.S. Treasury.
Authorized to SEC to impose a transactions fee on securities purchases of more than $5,000 to ensure prompt
repayment of a loan from the Treasury.
Exempted from assessments revenues from sale of real estate, oil, gas and other mineral rights except those required
by law to be registered with the SEC.
Exempted from assessments revenues from insurance business, distribution of mutual fund shares, investment advisory
service and distribution of U.S. Treasury securities as an agent of the Federal Reserve Board.
Authorized the SEC to examine and oversee the SIPC and to require periodic reports on its activities.
Authorized the SEC to require adoption of rules and amendment of its rules by the SIPC.
Authorized the SIPC to require periodic reports of its members' activities, to be made through the members' self-
regulatory organizations recognized by the SEC.
Authorized the SEC to require the self-regulatory organizations to adopt or amend rules governing examination of and
reporting on the financial condition of their members.
Clarified SEC authority to establish rules on financial responsibility of broker-dealers and their relevant business
practices.
Authorized the SIPC to initiate court proceedings by asking for appointment of a trustee to liquidate a broker-dealer
considered to be in danger of failing to meet its financial obligations to customers due to insolvency, bankruptcy,
receivership or noncompliance with financial responsibility laws.
Provided for liquidation proceedings under bankruptcy law.
Required appointed trustees to distribute paid-for securities and securities held for customers' accounts and to complete
open contractual commitments of broker-dealers in liquidation; authorized the SIPC to advance funds to meet such
commitments.
Required the SIPC to advance money from the insurance fund to meet customer claims.
Floor Action
The House Dec. 1 by a 359-3 roll-call vote passed HR 19333. The bill then went to the Senate, where S 2348,
which differed only in certain details from the House bill, was awaiting action. (Vote 211, p. 74-H)
DEBATE. Chairman Harley O. Staggers (D W. Va.) of the House Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee and
John E. Moss (D Calif.) of the Commerce and Finance Subcommittee, which drafted it, presented the summary
arguments for the bill.
William L. Springer (R Ill.), ranking minority member of the Committee, who controlled half the time allowed for
debate, also spoke in favor of the bill.
Only H.R. Gross (R Iowa) and John R. Rarick (D La.) attacked the bill itself in floor statements. They were joined by
Floyd V. Hicks (D Wash.) in voting against passage of HR 19333 in the 359-3 roll call.
Rarick said the bill would “prove to be nothing more than a subterfuge under which investment brokers, dealers and
bankers will be able to now manipulate taxpayers' dollars to cover up their own shortages and mismanagement. It
appears to me that this is just another means of establishing Federal control over private enterprise.”
Moss offered two amendments agreed to Nov. 17 by the Subcommittee after the bill had been reported. The first
provided that one member of the seven-member SIPC board of directors would be appointed alternately by the
Pacific Coast Stock Exchange, San Francisco-Los Angeles, and the Midwest Stock Exchange, Chicago, the third-
largest and fourth-largest exchanges.
As reported, the bill provided that the securities industry would appoint five members of the board and the President
would appoint two. When the SIPC borrowed from the Treasury, the President would appoint four more members,
making a majority of six publicly appointed members for the duration of the Treasury loan.
The New York Stock Exchange, the nation's largest, would appoint two members, and the next-largest, the
American Stock Exchange, also in New York, would appoint one. The securities industry's self-regulatory
organization, the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD), which is recognized by the SEC under the
Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, would appoint one member. The 10 regional stock exchanges would appoint
the fifth industry-appointed member.
Mcss' amendment changed the appointment authority for the fifth industry-appointed member.
Gross offered an amendment to the Moss amendment, providing that the President would appoint five members of
the board and the New York and American exchanges would each appoint one. Gross argued that the insurance
fund would consist of the public's money, since assessments would be passed on to customers in the form of higher
commissions and fees. Consequently, he said, a majority of the board should represent the public. Further, he
argued, public members would be more effective in stopping questionable practices of the industry than would
members appointed by exchanges and dealers.
7/2/09 2:34 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1291789&type=hitlist&num=8
Gross' amendment failed on a standing vote of 16-27. The Moss amendment was accepted by voice vote.
Moss then offered a second Subcommittee amendment, which allowed larger assessments in order to build up the
insurance fund faster. The bill as reported set a ceiling on assessments at .5 percent of gross revenues and
required the maximum assessment until the fund reached $150 million. The Moss amendment left the required
assessment at .5 percent but raised the maximum permissible assessment to 1 percent of gross revenues. His
amendment was accepted by voice vote.
Emanuel Celler (D N.Y.) offered an amendment requiring the SEC to study brokers' use of customers' cash balances
and securities in the conduct of their business. The SEC would have been required to report to Congress on the
matter within six months.
Celler was foremost among a number of speakers who criticized the bill because it did not prohibit the common
practice of using customers' securities for lending and as security and customers' cash balances, left on deposit, for
operating capital. Critics also faulted broker-ages for using their capital for speculation and faulted the bill for not
dealing with that and other practices. Celler and Gross criticized the SEC for not acting to curb the practices they
questioned.
Moss replied that there was some doubt whether the SEC had authority to curb the practices under existing law.
The SEC, he said earlier in debate, on several occasions had asked for expanded regulatory authority such as the
bill provided.
Staggers said information gathered during consideration of HR 19333 left substantial questions un-answered about
the effectiveness of the regulatory pattern in the securities industry. He said his Committee would make a thorough
study of the securities market and exchanges in the next session of Congress.
Celler, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, offered to withdraw his amendment if Staggers would join him in
seeking appointment of a special committee, to be composed of members of their respective Committees, to conduct
the study. But Staggers declined to agree without first consulting his Committee. Celler's amendment was rejected
by a standing vote of 16-25.
PROVISIONS. The provisions of HR 19333 as passed by the House were the same as those reported by the House
Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee except for the following changes:
Authorized the governing bodies of the third- and fourth-largest stock exchanges (the Pacific Coast Stock Exchange,
San Francisco-Los Angeles, and the Midwest Stock Exchange, Chicago), alternately, to appoint one member of the
board of directors (instead of one member being appointed by joint action of all the smaller exchanges).
Authorized a maximum rate for assessments against SIPC members equaling 1 percent of gross revenues (instead of
.5 percent).
Amendments Accepted
Dec. 1—John E. Moss (D Calif.)—Authorize the third- and fourth-largest stock exchanges, alternately, to appoint one
member of the board of directors (instead of all smaller exchanges jointly appointing one member). Voice vote.
Moss—Raise maximum assessment rate to 1 percent of gross revenues (from .5 percent). Voice.
Amendments Rejected
Dec. 1—H. R. Gross (R Iowa)—Amend first Moss amendment (above) to provide for five members of the board of
directors appointed by the President and one each by the New York Stock Exchange and the American Stock
Exchange, the largest and next-largest, (instead of two appointed by the President and five by the securities
industry). Standing vote, 16-27.
Emanuel Celler (D N.Y.)—Require the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to study the use of customers'
money and securities by brokers in the conduct of their business. Standing, 16-25.
Senate
Committee Action
HEARINGS. The Senate Banking and Currency Subcommittee on Securities held hearings in April and July on S
2348, Muskie's bill to establish a Federal Broker-Dealer Insurance Corporation. As modified by an amendment
Muskie offered April 9, the bill would have insured individual investors up to $50,000 and institutional investors up to
$250,000 against the loss of securities held by a broker or exchange and provided for $25 million total annual
premiums paid by dealers and exchanges.
Opening the hearings April 16, Harrison A. Williams Jr. (D N.J.), Subcommittee chairman, said that he “was not
wedded” to the Muskie bill and would support an alternative to S 2348 to allow the industry to establish its own
program.
Testimony April 16
Hamer H. Budge, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), supported a securities insurance
program, “in some form,” within the year:
“While we have some question as to the proposed bill in its present form, we believe that with appropriate changes,
it could provide the answer. This should not, however, preclude efforts by the industry to come up with its own
solution…which may provide a less costly and more efficient approach.”
7/2/09 2:34 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1291789&type=hitlist&num=8
Despite numerous Federal, state and securities industry safeguards and regulations, customers of broker-dealers
may be exposed to substantial risk of loss as a result of financial mis-management by a firm or its employees or by
a broker's insolvency. The industry has shown awareness of the problem and has established trust funds for
customer protection.
However, there is no present effective means to eliminate all possibility of customer loss. At least $45 million of
securities have “mysteriously disappeared” in the last year, and since mid-1968 at least 30 broker-dealer firms—
most relatively small—have experienced stock exchange liquidation, court receivership or bankruptcy. Others have
voluntarily liquidated or merged because of financial problems.
Representatives of the securities industry are exploring the possibility of establishing some form of private insurance
program.
Many provisions of S 2348 are not entirely appropriate as applied to the securities industry since they are patterned
on insurance corporations set up for banks and savings and loan associations which differ markedly from the
securities industry. Other provisions, such as the dollar limitations on insured investments, need further study.
Certain problems also would be created by having the SEC commissioners serve as directors of the corporation.
Some of the duties of directors in the bill could result in conflicts with the commissioner's existing duties as the
enforcement agency for the industry.
Muskie:
Waiting for the industry to report—the report is scheduled for July 1—would rule out enactment by Congress of
securities insurance legislation before adjournment, which is anticipated for late summer.
Donald T. Regan, president of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner and Smith, the nation's largest securities dealer, favored
a strengthened industry-run fund and more and stronger Government regulations:
The cause of recent failures has been the way capital was managed. New regulations should:
Strengthen the minimum capital-to-indebtedness ratio of dealers to 12-to-1 rather than the present SEC minimum of 20-
to-1.
Prohibit brokers from using privately held accounts and securities as part of net capital on which they can borrow.
Restrict uses of brokerage house capital to conduct of business and prohibit use for financing speculation or investment
in their own accounts.
John E. Leslie, chairman of the board of Bache and Company, supported a private industry-wide fund with SEC
supervision and back-up Treasury borrowing power:
The problem, however, is to prevent failures. This can be done by establishing reasonable brokerage commission
rates subject to periodic review, permanently allocating capital commitments to the industry, and continuing
appropriate supervision of brokers and dealers.
Wallace C. Latour, senior managing partner of Francis I. duPont and Company, endorsed an alternative industry-run
insurance plan:
If an investors plan such as in S 2348 “should prove to be the only, or even the most effective way,” to restore
public confidence in the securities industry, “we would support such a confidence fund enthusiastically.”
April 17
Robert W. Haack, president of the New York Stock Exchange, suggested a private stand-by line-of-credit plan:
Most of the major stock exchanges have established customer guarantee funds. Some of the self-regulatory
organizations have not, primarily because of inherent financing problems.
Congress should establish authority for stand-by lines-of-credit with the Federal Government to registered self-
regulatory agencies, including exchanges and organizations like the National Association of Securities Dealers
(NASD). Organizations which have guarantee trust funds would use the funds before drawing on the credit.
Organizations without trust funds could, when necessary, use the line-of-credit to the extent of their authority. Since
all participants would be registered by the SEC, the agency would have authority to discipline borrowing
organizations in the event of abuses.
The cost of this program should be substantially less than the $200-million initial capitalization envisioned by S
2348. The precedent has long been established of providing Government loan assistance for private enterprise
where financial assistance is not available commercially. The program also would maintain the current approach—
self-regulation with Government supervision—to regulating the securities industry.
Robert M. Gardiner, chairman of the legislative committee of the Association of Stock Exchange Firms:
The language of S 2348 overplays the concept of insurance and underplays the true nature of deposit insurance
corporations, which is regulatory. Many alternatives must be studied. After thorough examination, the industry may
conclude that some Government participation may be necessary, either on a direct or stand-by basis.
July 16
Budge:
Provisions of the proposed SIPC are:
7/2/09 2:34 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 9 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1291789&type=hitlist&num=8
Coverage of securities customer losses up to $50,000 per account, including interdealer and bank transactions for the
account of customers in addition to fully paid-for securities successfully traced and claimed, in the event of failure of a
broker-dealer.
Creation of a nonprofit SIPC to which all registered brokers, dealers, and exchange members would be required to
belong and contribute.
SIPC authority to require exchanges to examine their members' financial conditions, to make loans to members in
danger of failing to meet obligations to customers and to obtain court-appointed trustees for members which have failed
or are in danger of failing to meet their obligations to customers.
SEC authority to review and require changes in SIPC regulations, and broader-than-existing SEC authority to require
examination of and reporting on the financial condition of members and to establish safeguards to guarantee the
financial responsibility of broker-dealers.
Authorization of a $1-billion standby credit from the U.S. Treasury, and Treasury authority to levy assessments against
investors if necessary to repay extensions of Federal credit.
David M. Kennedy, Secretary of the Treasury:
The Administration seeks quick passage of this legislation. It believes the SIPC would “substantially” help investor
confidence.
The administration supports the policy decisions incorporated in the SEC-task force agreement. With the provision
of a $1-billion line of credit from the Treasury, “there can be no doubt as to the adequacy of the resources of the
corporation.” The rates of assessment on member firms “should permit an adequate build-up of the funds…and in
this longer-run setting there is every reason to expect that the corporation can provide adequate insurance within its
own resources.”
“We would expect assessments on industry firms to provide adequate revenues except in cases where large claims
had to be satisfied.”
REPORT. The Senate Banking and Currency Committee on Sept. 21 reported S 2348 (S Rept 91 -1218) as
amended to incorporate the SEC-task force compromise.
Provisions. As reported, S 2348:
Created the Security Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC), a private nonprofit corporation to provide financial
protection for customers of broker-dealers.
Required broker-dealers who held free credit balances or securities which could be pledged as security on loans to be
members of SIPC and permitted voluntary membership to other broker-dealers.
Vested control of the corporation in a Board of Directors consisting of the SEC chairman, the chairman of the Federal
Reserve Board, the Secretary of the Treasury and two public members to be appointed by the President with the advice
and consent of the Senate.
Established an insurance fund to insure each customer of an SIPC member against loss due to insolvency up to
$50,000, in addition to paid-for securities successfully traced and claimed.
Required the fund to reach $75 million within 120 days of enactment, of which $65 million was expected to be in the
form of a line of credit from a consortium of banks and $10 million was to be cash—$3 million from cash on hand in trust
funds and $7 million from an assessment against the 1969 gross revenues of members.
Required the fund to be increased, by assessments, to $150 million, the line of credit to be retired and a minimum
balance of $100 million to be kept in the fund unless a reduced amount was approved by the SEC.
Authorized the SIPC to borrow up to $1 billion from the Treasury as backstop protection.
Authorized the SEC to examine the SIPC and to require periodic reports on its activities.
Authorized SIPC to require periodic reports of its members' activities, to be made through the members' self-regulatory
organizations recognized by the SEC.
Authorized the SEC to require the self-regulatory organizations to adopt or amend rules governing the examination of
and reporting on the financial condition of their members.
Authorized the SIPC to initiate court proceedings by asking for appointment of trustees for broker-dealers considered to
be in danger of failing to meet their obligations to customers.
Required the SIPC to advance money from the insurance fund to meet customer claims.
Established requirements and authorized the SEC to establish rules for meeting the commitments of failing broker-
dealers under trusteeship.
Floor Action
The Senate Dec. 10 by a unanimous roll-call vote of 77-0 passed HR 19333. (Vote 388, p. 66-S)
7/2/09 2:34 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 10 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1291789&type=hitlist&num=8
Before passing HR 19333, the Senate substituted the provisions of S 2348 for those of the House-passed bill.
An amendment by Thomas J. McIntyre (D N.H.) reducing the insurance coverage of the bill to $20,000 per investor
account, from $50,000 as reported by the Committee and passed by the House, was adopted by voice vote. The
amendment was intended to make the coverage identical to that provided to bank, savings and loan association and
credit union depositors.
Jacob K. Javits (R N.Y.) asked McIntyre if he would accept a change providing coverage of $20,000 for cash
balances left on deposit with brokers and $50,000 for securities. McIntyre declined, saying the matter could be
discussed in a House-Senate conference.
By voice vote the Senate accepted a second McIntyre amendment. The amendment incorporated a provision of the
House bill requiring all broker-dealers to be members of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC)
except those confining their activities to sale of mutual fund shares and variable annuities and insurance or
professional advice to mutual funds and insurance companies. The bill as reported by the Senate Committee had
required membership by all broker-dealers holding customers' securities and free credit balances, which they could
use in the conduct of their brokerage businesses, and permitted voluntary membership by other broker-dealers.
A three-part amendment by William Proxmire (D Wis.) was accepted by voice vote. The amendment:
Required brokerages established after enactment of the bill to meet financial standards to be established by the SIPC in
order to qualify for coverage of their customers.
Provided blanket coverage for brokerages existing before enactment.
Required the SIPC to compile a list of unsound practices engaged in by brokers, to report to Congress on actions taken
to curb those practices and to recommend necessary legislation to eliminate the practices.
The latter provision was directed specifically at the use of customers' funds and securities by brokers in the day-to-
day conduct of their brokerage businesses. The demand for legislative remedies meshed with a promise by Harrison
A. Williams Jr. (D N.J.), chairman of the Banking and Currency Securities Subcommittee, to propose a thorough
inquiry into all aspects of the securities industry during the next session of Congress.
The Senate by voice vote then accepted an amendment by Edward W. Brooke (R Mass.) requiring brokers to
establish reserves to insure cash balances of customers and to segregate customers' securities from their own. The
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which was authorized by the bill to oversee the SIPC and to amend or
supplement its regulations, was required to adopt regulations governing the establishment of reserves.
By a standing vote, the Senate rejected an amendment by Vance Hartke (D Ind.) to establish a Federal system for
insuring private pension programs. Hartke said about 27 million persons were members of private pension
programs. He cited a Labor Department study which reported there was a “marked upward trend” in pension plan
terminations.
President Nixon on March 20 proposed legislation to protect employees' pension rights and investments.
Subcommittees of the House Education and Labor Committee and the Joint Economic Committee held hearings on
various bills and proposals relating to private pension plans during 1970. No further action was taken. (Story, p.
770)
The Senate Labor and Public Welfare Committee planned a study of private pension plans during the next session
of Congress.
An amendment drafted by Ralph W. Yarborough (D Texas), which would have attached a bill (S 2236) creating a
Federal Insurance Guaranty Agency to provide protection against insurance company insolvencies, was not called
up for floor consideration. The Senate Commerce Committee reported S 2236 Dec. 8 (S Rept 91 -142), but no
further action was taken on the bill. (Story, p. 925)
Despite statements by Hartke, Frank E. Moss (D Utah) and Philip A. Hart (D Mich.) favoring the amendment, it was
not called up. Yarborough was not present in the Senate chamber at the time.
PROVISIONS. As passed by the Senate, the provisions of HR 19333 were the same as those of S 2348 as reported
by the Senate Committee, except for the following:
Insured each customer account up to $20,000 (instead of $50,000) against loss due to insolvency.
Required all broker-dealers to be members of the SIPC except those confining their brokerage operations to certain
(primarily mutual fund and insurance) activities (instead of requiring membership of all broker-dealers holding
customers' securities and cash balances).
Required brokerages established after enactment of the bill to meet financial standards established by the SIPC to
qualify for insurance coverage, provided blanket coverage for existing brokerages and required the SIPC to report
unsound brokerage practices, action taken to curb those practices and legislative recommendations to eliminate
unsound practices.
Required brokerages to establish reserves to insure cash balances left on deposit by customers and to segregate
customers' securities from their own.
Amendments Accepted
Dec. 10—Thomas J. McIntyre (D N.H.)—Reduce insurance coverage to $20,000, from $50,000. Voice vote.
7/2/09 2:34 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 11 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1291789&type=hitlist&num=8
McIntyre—Require SIPC membership of all broker-dealers except those confining their operations to certain
activities. Voice.
William Proxmire (D Wis.)—Require brokerages established after enactment to meet financial standards to qualify for
insurance coverage under the bill and require the SIPC to report on and recommend legislation on unsound broker-
dealer practices. Voice.
Edward W. Brooke (R Mass.)—Require brokerages to establish reserves to insure cash balances of customers and to
segregate customers' securities from brokerage securities. Voice.
Amendment Rejected
Dec. 10—Vance Hartke (D Ind.)—Establish a Federal program to insure private pension plans. Standing vote.
Conference Report
House and Senate conferees Dec. 18 filed a report (H Rept 91-1788) on the bill.
Significant differences between the House and Senate versions of HR 19333 were resolved by conferees as follows:
Board of Directors. The Senate bill provided for an SIPC governing board with a majority of its members appointed
to represent the public. The House bill provided that the securities industry would ordinarily appoint a majority of the
board. But if claims resulting from brokerage insolvencies exceeded amounts the SIPC was able to raise for its
insurance fund from assessment of members and other private sources, making a loan from the U.S. Treasury
necessary, the House bill provided for additional members to be appointed by the President to create a public
majority on the board.
The conference version provided for appointment to the board of one representative from the Treasury, one from the
Federal Reserve Board and five members by the President—three from the securities industry and two from the
general public.
Assessment Ceiling. The Senate bill authorized assessments of members up to 0.5 percent of gross revenues.
The House bill's ceiling was 1 percent. The conference version authorized 1 percent but permitted assessments
over 0.5 percent only when the securities industry was strong enough financially to ensure that higher assesments
would not endanger it.
Customer Protection. The House bill granted protection up to $50,000 per customer account. The Senate bill
reduced the amount to $20,000. The conference version kept the $50,000 maximum but limited the coverage for
customers' cash left on deposit with brokers to $20,000 per account.
Financial Responsibility. The House bill granted authority to the SEC to establish rules on financial responsibility
and related practices of brokers. The Senate bill, in addition, required segregation of customers' securities and
establishment of reserves to protect cash left on deposit with brokers. Further, the Senate bill required the SIPC to
establish eligibility requirements for brokerages formed after enactment of the bill. The conference version
eliminated those specific requirements, but it required the SEC to establish regulations governing financial
responsibility and related practices of brokers and specified that this rule-making authority covered custody of
customers' cash and securities, including establishment of reserve requirements. The conferees considered the rule-
making authority broad enough to dispense with the requirement for eligibility standards.
Industry Practices. The Senate version required the SIPC to compile a list of unsound practices engaged in by
brokers, to report to Congress on steps taken to curb those practices and to propose legislation to eliminate them.
The House version did not contain a similar provision. Conferees placed the requirement on the SEC.
Final Action
The House Dec. 21 by voice vote and with only brief debate adopted the report on HR 19333.
The Senate Dec. 22 by voice vote adopted the report, completing Congressional action.
Two Senators took sharp issue with the conferees' decisions to delete amendments which they had offered
successfully on the floor to strengthen the bill. The amendments were adopted Dec. 10, the date of Senate passage
of the bill.
Edward W. Brooke (R Mass.) had offered an amendment requiring brokers to segregate customers' securities from
those of the brokerage and to establish reserves to insure customers' cash balances left on deposit with the
brokerage. (Conferees left protection of customers' cash and securities to the SEC under expanded rule-making
authority. The issue involved the brokerage custom of using customers' cash and securities in the conduct of
brokerage business.)
Brooke said a simple principle was involved: “The fundamental difference between ‘mine’ and ‘thine’….
“The securities industry says this has been the practice. Of course, the mere fact that they have been doing it for a
number of years does not make it right nor does it make it right that circumstances are such that to do otherwise
would be injurious to them financially.”
Brooke called the conference version's specific requirement that SEC rules provide for reserves to guarantee
customers' cash balances “a step in the right direction.” But he questioned the adequacy of the rule-making
provision on customers' securities.
7/2/09 2:34 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 12 of 12http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1291789&type=hitlist&num=8
“There have been no specific steps taken to ensure that brokerage houses will properly segregate customer
securities,” he said. “Few investors who trade through brokerage houses and entrust their cash and securities to
broker-dealers for safekeeping are aware of the consequences of doing so.”
The effect of the conference compromise, he said, was to insure the industry without requiring reform of unsound
practices in return.
“If we do not impose reasonable reforms on the industry now as a quid pro quo for this legislation,” he said,
“industry resistance in the years to come will frustrate Congressional efforts in this area.”
An amendment by William Proxmire (D Wis.) requiring the SIPC to impose financial standards on brokerages formed
in the future to determine their eligibility for insurance coverage also was deleted in conference. Proxmire, one of
the conferees, refused to sign the conference report. He charged that the other Senate conferees did not
adequately support the Senate's position on his and Brooke's provisions in conference.
“The experience on this bill once again illustrates the weakness in Senate conference committee procedures where
a majority of Senate conferees apparently opposed to the Senate position are appointed,” Proxmire said.
Features
Brokers Hold Money
Stockbrokers and securities dealers, in addition to carrying out the purchasing and selling mandates of their
customers, have responsibility for safeguarding billions of dollars of their customers' money and securities.
When customers accrue funds from the sale of securities, they frequently leave these credit balances on deposit
with their broker-dealers. Although the customers may withdraw their balances on demand, the funds are left with
the brokerages largely as a convenience, in anticipation of future purchases.
Brokers are free to use these funds in the conduct of their businesses for most types of transactions requiring
financing. The practice is somewhat comparable to banks' use of customers' deposits.
Free credit balances in the hands of New York Stock Exchange members in 1970 totaled about $2 billion; in early
1969, the amount reached $3.7 billion.
When customers buy securities, they frequently leave them with brokers for safekeeping. Those held on margin—
not fully paid-for—may be loaned to other brokers or used for collateral on loans. These securities are freely
transferable, enabling brokers to fulfill  customers' orders promptly and easily but also creating the risk of incorrect
transfer. Further, such securities may be attached by creditors of a firm in difficulty.
Fully paid-for securities are required to be segregated, and customers have the right to demand delivery. But
segregation and identification of securities in high-volume conditions are difficult to maintain.
While no total figures are available for customer securities held by brokers, the nation's largest brokerage—Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Inc.—in 1970 held $18 billion, according to the Senate Banking and Currency
Committee. The committee's report on the securities investor protection bill included an estimate of $50 billion in
customer cash and securities held by brokers.
Federal laws and regulations require broker-dealers to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
maintain records and report to each customer concerning transactions in his account. Conditions are prescribed in
which brokers may lend customers' securities. Brokerages are required to meet certain capital requirements
continuously, including maintenance of a prescribed minimum ratio of debt to net capital. They are further limited by
state law and by the regulations of the stock exchanges.
Document Citation
"Congress Clears Securities Investor Protection Bill." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal70-1291789.
Originally published in CQ Almanac 1970 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1971).
http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal70-1291789 (accessed July 2, 2009).
Document ID: cqal70-1291789
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal70-1291789
© 1971, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
