7/2/09 2:29 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1291867&type=hitlist&num=10
Stock Market and Financial
Services
2004 Stock Option Accountability
2001 SEC Law a Win for Wall Street
1999 Major Overhaul Enacted Of Rules
Governing the Financial Services
Industry
1998 Loophole Fix Moves Class-Action
Securities Suits From State to
Federal Courts
1998 Financial Services Overhaul Dies
in Senate, A Victim of Friendly
Fire
1997 Financial Services Overhaul Stalls
1996 Securities Regulation Provisions
1996 Financial Services Provisions
1996 Congress Streamlines Securities
Rules
1994 Other Securities-Related Bills
Considered in 1994
1994 Financial Services Trade Bill
Falters at Session's End
1993 Financial Services Bill Seeks To
Open Markets
1993 Bill Tightens Regulation of
Government Bond Market
1992 Government Securities Bill Is
Quashed
1991 Government Securities Bill
Considered
1990 Market Control Authority of the
Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) Increased
1990 Congress Passes Bills
Strengthening Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC)
1989 Securities Arbitration
1989 Market Reform Stalled
1988 Stock Market Regulation
1988 Insider-Trading Bill
1986 Securities Dealer Regulations
1985 Government Securities Firms
1982 Commodity Futures Trading Bill
Cleared
1980 Securities Investor Privacy
1977 Investor Protection
1975 Overhaul Of Securities Industry
Approved
1974 Rules Committee Blocks
Securities Bill
1974 Municipal Bonds Regulation
1973 Stock Exchange Membership
1973 Securities Transactions
1973 Securities Thefts
1973 Federal Financing Bank
1972 Securities Transactions
1972 Securities Industry
1971 Securities Thefts: Mafia Moves on
Wall Street
Mutual Funds: New Controls After Four-Year
Delay
An article from CQ Almanac 1970
Document Outline
Background
1970 Legislation
House
Conference Committee
Features
President Nixon Dec. 14 approved the result of a four-year Congressional
effort when he signed a bill (S 2224–PL 91 - 547 ) establishing broad
regulatory authority over mutual funds, limiting their sales charges and
curbing certain practices of the industry.
The bill, which cleared Congress Dec. 1, made the first substantial changes in
the regulation of mutual funds in 30 years.
The Senate had passed S 2224 on May 26, 1969. But the House Interstate
and Foreign Commerce Committee failed to act on the measure until Aug. 7,
1970, when it reported the House version of the bill (HR 17333). (Senate
passage, 1969 Almanac p. 909)
The House Sept. 23 passed HR 17333 by voice vote and the bill emerged
from conference committee Nov. 25 (H Rept 91 -1631). The Senate Nov.
30 and the House Dec. 1, by voice votes without debate, adopted the report
on S 2224, completing Congressional action.
PROVISIONS. As cleared by Congress, S 2224:
Prohibited excessive mutual fund sales charges and gave the National
Association of Securities Dealers (NASD) initial responsibility for preventing
excessive charges.
Authorized the SEC to amend or add to NASD regulations on sales charges.
Required the SEC to establish regulations for securities dealers not subject to
NASD regulation, and gave such dealers the choice of being governed by
SEC or NASD regulations.
Limited front-end loads to 20 percent of total payments in any one year and
an average of 16 percent during the first four years of a contractual plan.
(Explanation of terms, box p. 891)
As an alternative, permitted front-end loads of up to 50 percent of total
payments, but required that a shareholder who wished to cash in his shares
during the first 18 months of a plan be paid the current value of his account
and be refunded all sales charges exceeding 15 percent of his total
payments.
Required that a shareholder under a contractual plan be informed of the total
amount of sales charges he was contracting for and that he be refunded his
total payments if he wished to discontinue the plan within 45 days after being
so informed.
In plans promising to pay a fixed amount on maturity (face-amount
certificates), required spreading front-end loads over five years.
Established a fiduciary duty to shareholders on the part of investment advisers
 
7/2/09 2:29 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1291867&type=hitlist&num=10
1971 Securities Industry
1970 Securities Exemption
1970 Protection for Stockholders
1970 Mutual Funds: New Controls
After Four-Year Delay
1970 Congress Clears Securities
Investor Protection Bill
1969 Securities Hearings
1969 Mutual Funds
1968 Securities Disclosure
1968 Over-The-Counter Securities
1968 Institutional Investors Study
1967 Securities Disclosure
1967 Hearings Held on S.E.C. Bill to
Regulate Mutual Funds
1965 Securities Fees
1964 Controls Over Stock Issues and
Dealers Strengthened
1963 SEC Study Submitted; Senate
Approves Bill
1962 S.E.C. Activities
1955 Stock Market Study
1955 Government Securities
1954 Changes In SEC Law
Established a fiduciary duty to shareholders on the part of investment advisers
and managers.
Empowered a shareholder or the SEC to sue fund advisers and managers for
breach of fiduciary duty.
Permitted fees for management based on performance provided that fees
were adjusted according to a comparison of the growth or decline in the value
of investments with an established index.
Codified administrative treatment of banks' collective trust funds and
insurance companies' separate accounts for corporate pension plans and
those of self-employed persons.
Restricted creation and operation of mutual fund holding companies.
Eliminated a number of exemptions from regulation of investment advisers in
existing law and gave the SEC broader authority to administer the Investment
Advisers Act.
Background
References. 1969 Almanac, p. 909; 1968 Almanac, p. 665; 1967 Almanac, p.
1093; 1964 Almanac p. 562; Congress and the Nation Vol. II, p. 268.
Since early 1967, Congress had legislation pending to increase controls over the mutual fund industry and reduce
investor costs. (Box on mutual funds, p. 891)
The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) drafted and supported the original bills introduced in both houses.
The SEC proposals resulted from three major studies. The first was carried out for the commission by the Wharton
School of Commerce and Finance. Begun in 1958, the study was submitted to Congress in 1962.
The second, which covered the entire securities industry, was an exhaustive study by the commission staff under a
1961 Congressional authorization. Completed in 1963, it directed criticism at certain practices of mutual funds.
Congress in 1964, acting on the basis of the broad study and at the urging of the SEC, enacted the Securities Act
Amendments of 1964 (PL 88-467). (1964 Almanac p. 562)
In December 1966, the SEC completed and sent to Congress a third study, devoted to mutual funds and based on
the findings of the SEC staff's earlier work. It was entitled Public Policy Implications of Investment Company Growth
(H Rept 89-2337).
The Senate passed a bill based on the SEC recommendations in 1968. After holding hearings, the House Interstate
and Foreign Commerce Committee decided not to consider the bill, thereby killing the measure in the 90th
Congress.
On May 26, 1969, the Senate passed S 2224, which was similar to its previous bill but which incorporated
compromise positions taken by the SEC and the mutual fund industry.
Issues. The major issues involved in the legislation became apparent between the submission of the SEC report in
December 1966 and the opening date of hearings before the Senate Banking and Currency Committee July 31,
1967.
In transmitting the bill to Congress May 1, 1967, Manuel F. Cohen, then SEC chairman, wrote:
“These legislative proposals recognize … that on the whole the investment company industry reflect, diligent
management by competent persons, that the industry has provided a useful and desirable means for investors to
obtain diversification of investment risks and professional investment management and that drastic changes (in the
1940 statutes) are not required. We believe, however, that enactment of these proposals would assure fairer
treatment for the millions of Americans, including many of modest means, who have chosen to invest many billions
of dollars in investment company securities.”
Cohen presented detailed statements to the Senate and House committees (the latter began hearings Oct. 10,
1967) supporting each provision of the bill. Although the SEC later shifted its position to support certain provisions
other than those in its original bill, the initial SEC presentations, drawn from the studies, formed the foundation of
the SEC's case for mutual fund legislation.
The framework of the SEC case was the prevailing pattern of external management in the industry.
As described by Cohen and subsequently by the current SEC chairman, Hamer H. Budge, most mutual funds
consisted of three separate entities, although frequently the same persons controlled all three. The typical
shareholder was aware of only one, the fund itself.
7/2/09 2:29 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1291867&type=hitlist&num=10
The individual, group or company organizing a mutual fund usually entered into a contract with the fund to be its
investment adviser. The adviser charged a fee, traditionally, 0.5 percent of the net assets, for managing the fund's
investments.
Representatives of the adviser were permitted by law to constitute up to 60 percent of the board of directors or
trustees of the fund.
Sale of the fund's shares usually was contracted out to a principal underwriter. In most cases, the underwriter was
either the same as the adviser or a close affiliate. By law, shares in a fund could not be sold at less than the price
set by the underwriter.
The SEC concluded that the system of external management made most funds dependent on their advisers. It
found the traditional “arms-length” relationship of business dealings lacking in the dealings of funds with their
advisers and frequently with their underwriters.
Where the adviser was a broker, the SEC found, that brokerage house usually received the fund's business,
consisting of frequent purchases and sales of large blocks of stock. But the prevailing pattern involved use of a
fund's business to reward broker-dealers who sold the fund's shares. The brokerage commissions constituted an
extra incentive for sales efforts.
In essence, the SEC found, mutual fund investment advisers set their own fees. While it recognized that some
reductions in fees had been made since publication of the Wharton report, the commission did not regard them as
commensurate with the economies of scale available to mutual funds, which had increased their assets many times
over and which dealt in large blocks of stock.
Unaffiliated directors of mutual funds were not in an effective position to gain reductions in fees on behalf of
shareholders, the commission said. Individual shareholders were equally ineffective, it found, and there appeared to
be little recourse through the courts.
The Investment Company Institute (ICI), the principal mutual fund organization, estimated that adviser fees totalled
$190 million in 1969. Not all such fees were comparable to each other, since some funds paid certain management
expenses while in others the adviser paid all expenses. The 1969 total was 0.4 percent of the $48-billion net assets
of the funds as of the end of the year.
The SEC was critical of bonuses paid to advisers—performance fees—for outperforming the stockmarket. It found
inadequate provisions for reducing the fees when a fund's portfolio fell behind the market's performance.
The SEC compared mutual fund sales charges unfavorably with the prevailing 1-percent brokerage fee for all but
small transactions and with the 5-percent fee limit placed on most transactions by the National Association of
Securities Dealers (NASD), the only self-regulatory organization recognized under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934.
High sales charges largely nullified the benefits of diversified investment available through mutual funds, according
to the SEC. It had advanced comparisons showing that mutual funds had been outpaced by a number of indexes of
stock market growth.
Only a little more than a quarter of all front-end-load contractual plans sold were completed, the SEC estimated.
Even rising stock prices did not prevent many of those who cashed in their holdings in the early years of their plans
from losing money.
Originally the commission recommended:
A statutory requirement, enforceable through the courts, that advisers' fees be reasonable.
A general limitation of sales charges to 5 percent.
Abolition of front-end load plans.
Prohibition of performance fees.
Mutual Fund Opposition. The ICI opposed the commission's recommendation on fees, citing figures to show that
the burden on individual investors was slight and that fees were being reduced. Both ICI and the Association of
Mutual Fund Plan Sponsors, representing contractual plans, offered statistics to show that shareholders fared well
with their investments, despite the sales charges.
In general, the industry regarded the sales charges as necessary to provide incentives to sales forces to
merchandise the funds actively. The institute challenged the commission's comparisons of mutual fund performance
with stockmarket indexes, stressing the availability of funds to investors of limited and moderate means.
1970 Legislation
From the outset of consideration of the mutual funds legislation, members of the Congressional committees involved
7/2/09 2:29 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1291867&type=hitlist&num=10
From the outset of consideration of the mutual funds legislation, members of the Congressional committees involved
had urged the SEC and the industry to compromise their differences.
Ultimately, first in the Senate version of S 2224 and later in the House version, a compromise was reached on
adviser's fees. The adviser was given a fiduciary duty—a trust obligation—to the shareholders of a fund. Both the
SEC and shareholders were empowered to seek redress in the courts for dereliction of this duty. The burden of
proof was placed on the plaintiff; in the House bill, the burden of proof was made more difficult to discourage
harassing lawsuits. The ICI said it agreed to the compromise “without enthusiasm,” but it did not oppose the
provision.
Both bills resolved the question of sales charges by prohibiting excessive sales charges and giving the NASD initial
responsibility to prevent excessive charges. The SEC was authorized to change and supplement NASD regulations
and to prescribe rules for dealers who were not NASD members.
Front-end load plans were given the alternative of limiting sales charges to 20 percent of the amount paid in any
year or refunding any amount above 20 percent of the total paid in at the request of a buyer who wished to sell his
shares. The Senate bill gave the shareholder this refund right for three years; the House bill for only one. The
contractual plan sponsors opposed the Senate's provisions.
Performance fees were permitted by both House and Senate bills but only in relation to an appropriate index so that
both declines and advances could be measured and fees adjusted accordingly.
House
Committee Action
HEARINGS. The House Interstate and Foreign Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce and Finance held hearings
on S 2224 late in 1969. (1969 Almanac p. 911)
REPORT. The House Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee Aug. 7 reported a clean bill (HR 17333—H Rept
91 -1382) on mutual fund regulation.
The Subcommittee had drafted the bill and reported it to the full Committee on June 1.
Provisions. As reported, HR 17333:
Established a standard prohibiting excessive sales charges and gave the NASD, the only recognized self-regulatory
securities association, initial responsibility for preventing excessive sales charges, as in the Senate bill.
Authorized the SEC, 18 months after enactment or promulgation of NASD rules, to change or add to those rules, also
as in the Senate bill.
Required the SEC at the same time to establish rules for dealers not subject to NASD regulations and gave such
dealers the choice of being governed by NASD or SEC regulations, also as provided by the Senate bill.
Limited front-end loads to 20 percent of the total payment in any year and to an average of 16 percent during the first
four years of a contractual plan. in a provision identical to that of the Senate which left the current 9-percent maximum
sales charge intact.
In an alternative more acceptable to the industry, permitted allocation of up to 50 percent of the first year's total
payments to sales charges but required to fund to return all of the sales charge above 20 percent of payments to an
investor redeeming his shares during the first year (the Senate bill required refunding all sales charges above 15
percent during the first three years).
Required notification of all charges within 60 days of the effective date of a plan and refund of all sums paid in if
requested within 30 days thereafter (60 days in the Senate bill).
In plans promising to pay a fixed amount on maturity (face-amount certificates), required spreading a frontend load over
five years, as most such plans provided and as the Senate bill required.
Established a fiduciary duty—a trust obligation—of investment advisers and managers to shareholders of funds advised
and managed (a provision similar to that in the Senate bill).
Empowered the SEC or a shareholder to sue a fund manager for breach of fiduciary duty, as in the Senate bill,  placing
the burden of proof on the plaintiff.
Permitted fees for management based on performance but required, in a manner similar to the Senate bill,  that an
appropriate index be established to determine growth and decline of value.
If existing law was found to permit banks to administer pooled investment funds, made such bank operations subject to
the regulatory pattern of the Investment Company Act, with special restrictions (the Senate bill specifically authorized
banks and savings and loan associations to enter the field).
7/2/09 2:29 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1291867&type=hitlist&num=10
If no other law prohibited operation of an investment company by a bank or savings and loan association, specified that
banks engaging in the activity were to be subject to regulation of the Comptroller of the Currency and savings and loan
associations to the Federal Home Loan Bank Board.
Generally codified administrative treatment of bank collective trust funds, separate insurance company accounts for
corporate pension plans and pension plans of self-employed persons, as in the Senate bill.
Restricted (though less strictly than the Senate bill) the operations of mutual fund holding companies.
Required officers and employees of national securities exchanges and registered broker-dealers to be fingerprinted as a
condition of their employment, to make theft of securities more difficult.
Eliminated a number of exemptions from regulation of investment advisers and gave the SEC broader and stronger
authority to administer the Investment Advisers Act, as in the Senate bill.
Floor Action
The House Sept. 23 passed HR 17333 by a voice vote. The House then substituted the provisions of HR 17333 for
a similar Senate-passed bill (S 2224) and passed S 2224 in lieu by voice vote.
Debate. Comments from the floor which consisted mostly of praise for the bill were in sharp contrast to the four
years of Committee infighting which preceded passage.
Speakers supporting the legislation included William L. Springer (R Ill.), ranking minority member of the Interstate and
Foreign Commerce Committee. The only statement in opposition was by Fletcher Thompson (R Ga.). a member of
the Committee.
Committee Chairman John E. Moss (D Calif.) offered the only amendment, which was accepted by voice vote. The
bill as reported gave the NASD initial responsibility to establish regulations preventing sales charges in excess of
the standards provided by the bill. It authorized the SEC 18 months after NASD action to change or add to the
NASD rules. Moss said the 18-month delay was not intended. His amendment made the NASD regulations subject
to SEC review and amendment for 18 months.
Provisions. As passed by the House, provisions of S 2224 were identical to those reported by the Interstate and
Foreign Commerce Committee except for the following:
Authorized the SEC, for 18 months after adoption of rules by the NASD to prevent sales charges in excess of statutory
standards, to amend or add to the rules.
Amendments Accepted
Sept. 23—John E. Moss (D Calif.)—Provide an initial 18-month period during which NASD rules would be subject to
SEC review and amendment. Voice vote.
Conference Committee
House and Senate conferees Nov. 25 filed a report (H Rept 91-1631) on S 2224.
Both the Senate and House versions substituted language prohibiting excessive sales charges for a provision of
existing law prohibiting “unconscionable or grossly excessive” charges. Both gave initial enforcement authority to the
NASD, which was recognized by the SEC as the securities dealers' self-regulatory organization under the provisions
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
The Senate version authorized the SEC to amend or add to enforcement regulations of the NASD 18 months after
enactment of the bill. The House version made this authority effective whenever the NASD adopted regulations or
18 months after enactment. The conference version incorporated the House provision.
Both versions limited front-end loads to a maximum of 20 percent of payments during any one year and an average
of 16 percent of payments during the first four years of a monthly-payment plan. Each bill provided an alternative
front-end-load provision.
The Senate bill permitted continuation of existing sales-load practice but required refunding of the existing value of
a shareholder's account plus all sales charges in excess of 15 percent of total payments if a shareholder decided to
cash in his account during the first three years of a plan. The House provision made this option effective for only
the first year of a plan and required refunding of sales charges exceeding 20 percent of total payments, plus the
current value of an account.
Conferees accepted the Senate figure of 15 percent and compromised at 18 months for the time period.
At the beginning of the contractual arrangement, the Senate bill gave a shareholder a period of 60 days—starting
on the date he was informed of the exact amount of sales charges he was contracting to pay—to withdraw and
7/2/09 2:29 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1291867&type=hitlist&num=10
on the date he was informed of the exact amount of sales charges he was contracting to pay—to withdraw and
receive a refund of the total amount he had paid in. The House bill provided only 30 days, and the conferees
compromised on 45 days.
Both versions provided means to curb excessive investment management fees by establishing a fiduciary duty—a
trust obligation—on the part of investment advisers to mutual fund shareholders. Both made the obligation
enforceable through the courts by authorizing either a shareholder or the SEC to sue for breach of fiduciary duty.
with the burden of proof falling on the plaintiff. The conference agreement excluded House language requiring that
the plaintiff prove his case with clear and convincing evidence.
Both versions permitted performance fees only when they were adjusted down as well as up as the performance of
a fund's portfolio was measured against an established index. The House version, which provided more precise
language for establishing the base points for performance fees and permitted such fees with certain types of
investment accounts other than mutual funds, was incorporated into the conference version.
The Senate-passed bill authorized banks and savings and loan associations to operate mutual funds known as
commingled agency accounts. The House bill left the issue of mutual fund operation by banks and savings
institutions to be settled by a case pending before the Supreme Court (NASD Inc. v. SEC). But it provided for
regulation of commingled agency accounts if they were upheld by the Court. Conferees eliminated both House and
Senate provisions on the subject.
The House version required fingerprinting of officers and employees of securities exchanges and registered broker-
dealers as a means of curbing thefts of securities. The Senate-passed bill had no such provision, and the conferees
excluded the matter.
Both versions restricted mutual funds which invest largely in mutual funds and other investment companies. The
conference agreement incorporated the Senate's 1.5–percent limit on sales charges by mutual fund holding
companies and otherwise generally followed the limitation established in the House version.
The Senate version placed restrictions on an existing exemption from regulation for investment companies dealing
largely in mineral royalties and leases. The SEC subsequently suggested that oil and gas mutual funds be regulated
under separate legislation. The House eliminated the provision, and conferees agreed to the House action.
Both versions exempted from the registration requirements of the the Securities Act of 1933 certain collective trust
funds maintained by banks and separate accounts maintained by insurance companies. Such funds were used to
finance corporate pension plans and self-employed individual and partnership plans qualifying for corporate
treatment under the Internal Revenue Code. The House version extended the exemption to single trust funds and
accounts, in keeping with established administrative practice, and granted an exemption to the trust funds from
certain reporting requirements of regulatory statutes. Conferees accepted the House provisions.
Final Action
The Senate Nov. 30 and the House Dec. 1, by voice votes and without debate, adopted the conference report on S
2224, completing Congressional action.
Features
Mutual Funds: How They Operate; How They Have Grown
A mutual fund is an investment company in which a number of persons invest money and which re-invests these
funds in stocks or other assets. There are other types of investment companies, but mutual funds outnumber all the
others and greatly exceed their assets.
The primary attraction of mutual funds is that they offer the advantages of diversified investment in a single
company. Shareholders receive the benefits of growth or income, or both, from all the assets in a fund's portfolio of
investments in different companies or activities. Ordinarily, the breadth of the portfolio protects them from severe
loss resulting from a drop in value or income of any single investment.
Mutual funds are not limited to specific issues of their stock; for practical purposes they are open to unlimited
investment by purchasers of shares, and they are obligated to redeem their shares when shareholders want to sell
back their holdings. To offset continual liquidations by shareholders who need cash or want to invest their money in
other activities, mutual funds actively sell their shares through underwriters and sales organizations.
The two Federal laws under which mutual funds were regulated were passed when the industry was in its infancy
and have not been amended substantially since. When the Investment Company Act and Investment Advisers Act
were passed in 1940, total assets of all investment companies were approximately $2 billion and mutual fund assets
were less than $450 million.
In 1970 the Investment Company Institute (ICI), the principal organization of mutual funds, claiming 93 percent of
the industry, listed 339 mutual funds. Their total assets were $45 billion, reflecting current market values (mutual
fund assets had reached $48 billion at the end of 1969). ICI counted 10.5 million shareholder accounts with
approximately 5.5 million owners—individuals, couples and families. Approximately one of every six of the 31 million
Americans owning stock in 1970 held mutual fund shares.
7/2/09 2:29 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1291867&type=hitlist&num=10
Nearly all funds charge purchasers a sales fee. For most funds the amount is 8.5 percent of the amount paid, or
9.3 percent of the amount actually invested.
The best-known type of fund merchandising is the contractual plan. About 50 companies offer plans under which
the buyer agrees to pay a fixed amount monthly for a period of years.
Most contractual plans involve a practice known as the front-end load. To provide monetary incentive to salesmen
and sales organizations, front-end-load contracts provide for allocation of up to 50 percent of the first year's
payments to the sales charge. The remainder of the fee is spaced out over the life of the contract.
The buyer is not obligated to make the payments called for under the contract and can take longer than the
prescribed time period to complete his payments. But he cannot alter the allocation of the sales charge, and if he
sells his shares he forfeits the amount of the sales charge he has paid. Most plans provide two exceptions to those
terms: A buyer may cancel his contract within 60 days of purchase and receive a refund of all the money he has
paid in; and during the first year a buyer who meets certain hardship conditions can be refunded 90 percent of his
payments.
Contractual plans were popular because they were within the financial reach of small investors. According to the
Association of Mutual Fund Plan Sponsors, the major organization of companies offering contractual plans, there
were more than one million shareholders under contractual plans holding more than $7 billion in shares in 1969.
More than two million such contracts had been sold since 1940, the organization estimated.
Document Citation
"Mutual Funds: New Controls After Four-Year Delay." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal70-
1291867. Originally published in CQ Almanac 1970 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1971).
http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal70-1291867 (accessed July 2, 2009).
Document ID: cqal70-1291867
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal70-1291867
© 1971, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
