2/8/10 1:33 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…ion=print&time=1265653910702&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
Congress Authorizes $2.9 Billion for Housing Programs
An article from CQ Almanac 1970
Document Outline
Provisions
Background
1968 Goals Unmet
1970 Housing Proposals
Senate
House
Conference Report
Features
President Nixon Dec. 31 signed into law a bill (HR 19436—PL 91 - 609), the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1970,
authorizing $2,884,500,000 for various housing and related programs. The bill included a new program of Federal crime insurance
and increased assistance for new communities development.
The final version of HR 19436 represented a compromise between bills passed by the House Dec. 3 and the Senate Sept. 23.
The Senate-passed measure contained authorizations of $3.9 billion for the Department of Housing and Urban Development
(HUD) and for aid to new communities and mass transit systems. The House version authorized $2.4 billion and did not include
assistance for new communities and mass transit programs.
Final Congressional action came Dec. 19 when the House adopted a conference report on HR 19436 by a 168–104 roll-call vote.
The Senate had adopted the report Dec. 18 by voice vote. Conferees restored the new communities program, but deleted aid for
mass transit systems.
Also dropped in the conference report was a provision in the House bill barring the HUD Department from requiring towns
applying for assistance to provide low-and moderate-income housing.
Provisions
As cleared by Congress, HR 19436, the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1970:
Title I—Mortgage Credit
Amended the National Housing Act of 1934 by extending until  Oct. 1, 1972, all programs of the Federal Housing Administration (FHA).
Amended Section 235 of the Act by increasing the total amount of homeownership contracts the HUD Secretary could sign by $25
million in fiscal 1971 and by an additional $30 million in fiscal 1972.
Amended Section 236 of the Act by increasing the total amount of rental assistance contracts the HUD Secretary could sign by $25
million in fiscal 1971 and an additional $30 million in fiscal 1972.
Amended the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965 by increasing the amount of contracts for rent supplements by $40 million
in fiscal 1972.
Provided that 10 percent of the Section 235 contracts (home ownership assistance) authorized for fiscal 1972 shall be available for
use for rehabilitated dwellings.
Authorized the use of available facilities in existing rental assistance and public housing projects for class-room purposes when public
schools were overcrowded partly as a result of the projects.
Title II-Urban Renewal and Housing Assistance Programs
Authorized $1.5 billion for urban renewal programs in fiscal 1972 and reserved a minimum of 35 percent of the funds for neighborhood
development programs.
2/8/10 1:33 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…ion=print&time=1265653910702&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
Authorized increases in grants for low-rent public housing program of $150 million (to $320 from $170 million) in fiscal 1971 and by
$225 million (to $575 million) in fiscal 1972. Provided that of the $150 million authorized for fiscal 1971, $75 million was to be used
exclusively for operation and maintenance expenses.
Authorized increases of $12 million in fiscal 1972 for annual debt-service grants for college housing.
Directed the HUD Secretary to encourage the construction of public housing projects with common dining facilities for the elderly,
handicapped and the displaced.
Amended the Housing Act of 1937 to define family income for the purpose of establishing maximum rentals at one-fourth of a tenant's
total income. Family income under the definition would include all money received by each member of the family in the household who
was at least 18 years of age, except (1) income which was determined by HUD to be nonrecurring, as well as the income of full-time
students; (2) an amount equal to the sum of $300 for each dependent, $300 for each secondary wage earner, 5 percent of the family's
gross income (10 percent in the case of elderly families), and extraordinary medical expenses; and (3) further deductions as allowed
by HUD for unusual circumstances.
Authorized HUD to make periodic determinations of prototype construction costs for public housing in each area, based on prevailing
cost factors; development costs of any project could not exceed the prototype cost by more than 10 percent.
Authorized HUD to assure low-rent public housing and assist local housing authorities in maintaining operating and maintenance
services by paying the difference between annual expenses and rental income. Among such services were tenant counseling on
family budgets and care of property, housing guards, recreational equipment, repairs and tenant participation in all aspects of housing
administration, management and maintenance.
Title III—Model Cities and Metropolitan Development Programs
Authorized $200 million for model cities and $30 million for comprehensive planning grants in fiscal 1972.
Authorized $50 million for neighborhood facilities in fiscal 1972.
Increased guarantee authority for new community development projects to $500 million from $250 million and extended the availability
period of unexpended funds to July 1, 1974.
Title IV—Consolidation of Open-Space Land Programs
Amended the Housing Act of 1961 to authorize $100 million in fiscal 1972 for a single program of grants for purchase and
development of open space land in urban areas for uses such as parks and historic preservation.
Title V—Research and Technology
Authorized $10 million for each of fiscal years 1972 and 1973 for HUD research to demonstrate the feasibility of providing low-income
families with allowances to assist them in getting existing standard rental housing of their choice.
Authorized $20 million for fiscal 1971–1972 for HUD to begin a grant program to assist public bodies in testing methods aimed at
ending housing abandonment.
Title VI—Crime Insurance
Authorized HUD to provide crime insurance beginning on Aug. 1, 1971, on a direct basis, where the Federal reinsurance program or
state and private plans were unavailable or were available at unreasonable rates. Coverage would include burglary, theft, robbery and
larceny.
Title VII—Urban Growth and New Community Development
Set forth Congressional findings that the nation's population would increase by about 75 million persons by the year 2000 and declared
that new communities must be established to accommodate them.
Provided that the President make biennial reports to Congress. beginning in February 1972, on assessments of Federal, state and
local policies affecting urban growth; analyses of future needs resulting from urbanization and steps being taken to meet those needs,
and recommendations for programs to carry out a national urban growth policy.
Contemplated four types of new communities under the Act: (1) communities within metropolitan areas as alternatives to urban sprawl;
(2) additions to existing smaller towns and cities; (3) major in-town developments to help renew central cities, and (4) free-standing
communities.
Provided that a new community program would be eligible for assistance if it (1) provided an alternative to disorderly growth by helping
to preserve the environment or reversing migration; (2) was economically feasible; (3) contributed to the welfare of the surrounding
area; (4) was consistent with comprehensive plans for the area; (5) had been approved by state and local governments; (6) contributed
to good living conditions, in a community having balanced and diversified land use and served by adequate public and commercial
facilities; (7) made substantial and appropriate provisions for low- and moderate-income housing, and (8) made significant use of
2/8/10 1:33 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…ion=print&time=1265653910702&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
facilities; (7) made substantial and appropriate provisions for low- and moderate-income housing, and (8) made significant use of
advance technology.
Established the Community Development Corporation (CDC) within HUD to administer the Secretary's guarantee and loan functions
under the title. The CDC would be headed by a five-member board consisting of the Secretary, a general manager appointed by the
President with the advice and consent of the Senate and three persons appointed by the Secretary.
Authorized the HUD Secretary, acting through the CDC, to guarantee $500 million in bonds to help finance new community programs.
Authorized HUD to make supplementary grants to states and local public bodies to carry out public facilities projects in support of new
communities. The authorizations for appropriations for these grants would not exceed $36 million for fiscal 1971 and $66 million for
each of fiscal 1972 and 1973.
Authorized the CDC to make loans to new community developers to assist them in making interest payments on indebtedness for HUD
approved programs. The interest loans outstanding in fiscal 1971 could not exceed $20 million for a single program and $240 million
for all programs.
Authorized $5 million in fiscal 1971 and $5 million in fiscal 1972 for planning grants to new community developers.
Authorized HUD to carry out new community demonstration projects on Federal land.
Authorized HUD to make grants to states or local public bodies to provide public services to residents of new communities during the
initial period of development.
Title VIII—Farm Housing
Amended the Housing Act of 1949 to authorize HUD to insure loans for farm labor housing made by private lenders to public or private
nonprofit groups of farmworkers.
Amended the 1949 Act to increase the maximum amount of each loan or grant which the Secretary of Agriculture could make for minor
farm building improvements to $3,500 from $1,500.
Amended the 1949 Act to include state-chartered public or private nonprofit groups, or any nonprofit group of farmworkers, as eligible
to provide financial aid for low-rent housing to domestic farm labor. Reduced the contribution required of the applicant to 10 percent,
from 33 percent, of the total development cost.
Amended the 1949 Act to authorize an increase in the maximum loan allowable under the rural rental housing program for the elderly
to $750,000 from $300,000.
Title IX—Miscellaneous
Authorized $5 million for aid to low- and moderate-income tenant organizations and nonprofit sponsors of multifamily housing.
Authorized $1.5 million for each of fiscal 1971–73 for HUD to provide technical assistance to construction contractors or
subcontractors working through the Small Business Administration.
Amended the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1969 to allow the General Services Administration to give HUD surplus land for
construction of sale and rental housing.
Extended until  Dec. 31, 1973, the existing export quotas on softwood logs of 350 million board feet a year.
Made banks in American Samoa eligible for Federal deposit insurance.
Made it a crime to purchase one- to four-family dwellings subject to FHA-insured or Veterans Administration loans in default, and apply
the rent receipts to one's own use rather than making payments on the loans.
Raised to 20 percent from 15 percent the limit on funds which Federal savings and loan associations could invest in multifamily
dwellings.
Amended the Savings and Loan Company Amendments of 1967 to allow a savings and loan company that was part of a holding
company to finance home construction projects by its own service corporation.
Background
References. Emergency Home Finance Act p. 277; Emergency Community Facilities Act p. 724; HUD-Independent Offices
appropriations bill p. 742; Housing and Urban Development Act of 1969, 1969 Almanac p. 391; housing hearings p 399; 1968
Housing and Urban Development Act, 1968 Almanac p. 335; 1949 Housing Act, Congress and the Nation Vol. I p. 460.
The Nixon Administration was counting on a housing boom in 1971 to help bring the country out of an economic tailspin. Four
days before the Labor Department reported that unemployment during December had reached 6 percent, President Nixon
2/8/10 1:33 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…ion=print&time=1265653910702&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
days before the Labor Department reported that unemployment during December had reached 6 percent, President Nixon
declared: “The fact that we are going to have by far the biggest year in housing in the history of this country is going to have a
rather dramatic effect on unemployment…”
Buoyed by a substantial upturn in housing starts, builders believed Mr. Nixon was on the right track. The National Association of
Home Builders reported that housing starts in 1970 were expected to reach 1,650,000 units. This was 200,000 more than were
reported in 1970 and the highest level since 1963, when 1,642,000 new housing units were built.
Analysts, however, saw no immediate downturn in construction or financing costs. Interest rates had eased off from the highest
levels since the Civil War, but were only slightly below 1970 highs. Buyers were finding it possible to get mortgage loans only if
they were willing to pay the price.
Optimism prevailed in the housing industry because of the availability of mortgage money after the long drought. By late 1970,
the flow of funds for mortgages had increased by more than a third over the earlier part of the year. Interest rates on Treasury
bills, bonds and short-term notes had dropped, raising deposits available to savings banks and savings and loan associations for
mortgages.
Substantial cuts in the prime and discount rates had not yet had a great effect on mortgage costs, traditionally the last to decline.
Higher prices resulting from increased costs of land, labor and building supplies tended to offset cuts in interest rates.
Construction costs rose 6 percent in 1970 despite the general slowdown in business activity.
Builders reported that a trend first visible in 1969—the decline in the median size of new houses—was continuing. The move was
toward fewer frills, cheaper materials and smaller lots in an effort to cut costs. More planned units, such as clusters of houses on
a common tract, rather than homes on the traditional individual lot, were being built.
1968 Goals Unmet
In 1968, prior to the passage of the 1968 Housing Act, HUD defined for Congress anticipated housing requirements for the
decade from 1968 to 1978 if all families in the United States were to be guaranteed a decent home, as affirmed in the Housing
Act of 1949 (PL 81-171).
The proposal called for the construction and rehabilitation of 26 million housing units in ten years, six million with government
assistance.
The anticipated production figures were modified slightly in the First Annual Report on National Housing Goals. The changes
included a small increase in projected private housing starts balanced by a decrease in assisted starts.
The first annual report predicted some difficulty in meeting anticipated 1969 and 1970 goals as a result of insufficient funding of
Government programs and pressures on the housing industry caused by unfavorable market conditions, but on the whole it was
optimistic: “From a long-range point of view, the economic resources to meet the specified housing requirements over the next
decade should be available.”
Total private and public starts and rehabilitation in 1969 came close to the 1.7-million goal outlined in the first annual report,
largely because of mortgage financing available before the credit squeeze began.
1970 Housing Proposals
An overhaul of the public housing program and major changes in mortgage law represented the main thrust of the Housing and
Urban Development Department's 1970 legislative recommendations.
The Housing and Urban Development Act of 1970 (S 3639) was introduced March 25 by John J. Sparkman (D Ala.), chairman of
the Senate Banking and Currency Committee.
At a March 19 press conference, Secretary George Romney of the HUD Department said the Act would, if approved:
Reduce down payments on Federal Housing Administration (FHA) insured home mortgages to closing costs or a $200 minimum on
homes costing up to $20,000.
Allow public housing occupants to buy their homes, as individuals or members of tenants' organizations.
Lower rental payments of many public housing tenants to 20 percent of the first $3,500 and 25 percent of additional income.
Streamline FHA programs and reduce them from 50 to 8, and replace 40 existing HUD programs with 4: one each for subsidized and
unassisted home mortgages, and one each for subsidized and unassisted rental projects.
Major goals of the new legislation, according to HUD Department officials, were to make more efficient programs providing low,
moderate and middle income dwellings, to eliminate unnecessary bureaucratic requirements and establish uniform criteria for low
income housing programs, to make assistance programs more responsive by basing eligibility limits and construction requirements
on factors in the community area, and to ensure that an optimum number of low income families participate in rental and home-
ownership programs.
2/8/10 1:33 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…ion=print&time=1265653910702&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
Morgage Credit. Various dollar limits on FHA mortgages would be replaced by a flexible formula based on periodically revised
development costs of modestly designed prototype dwellings in each community. Maximum insurable mortgage for an assisted
dwelling could not exceed 110 percent of the development cost of the prototype; maximum mortgage for unassisted housing
could not exceed 200 percent of development cost.
The Secretary of the HUD Department would be given permanent authority to establish maximum interest rates on FHA insured
mortgages and loans, consistent with market conditions, and would be authorized to limit the amount of mortgage settlement
costs.
Existing down payments—of 3 percent—on FHA insured mortgages would be eliminated. New down payments would be limited
to closing costs, usually less than $1,000.
Mortgage loans permissible would be increased to 100 percent of the first $20,000 of property value, 90 percent of the value
between $20,000 and $30,000, and 80 percent of value over $30,000. Existing law sets the limit at 97 percent for the first
$15,000 of value, 90 percent between $15,000 and $25,000, and 80 percent over $25,000.
Mortgages insured by FHA or VA would be exempted from interest rate limits under state or local usury laws.
Senate
Committee Action
HEARINGS. The Senate Banking and Currency Subcommittee on Housing and Urban Affairs held hearings in July on the
Administration's housing bill (S 3639), other housing legislation and the Emergency Community Facilities Act of 1970 (PL 91-431).
(Emergency Community Facilities Act p. 724)
Testimony July 13
George Romney, Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development: Repeated testimony given June 2 before the
House Banking and Currency Committee. Explained that the intent of S 3639 was to consolidate and streamline the multitude of
narrow and separate legislative authorities, in the Department's housing programs.
The Administration bill sought to standardize the common elements in the existing authorities—income limits of families eligible to
participate, definition of income and percentage of income families had to contribute in assisted housing.
July 14
Louis R. Barba, president of the National Association of Home Builders:
The Association supports the concept of simplifying the contents of existing housing laws. Close study should be made, however,
of proposed changes and consolidations to assure that worthwhile programs which are working relatively well are not wiped out
inadvertently by any new law.
Congress should enact the Emergency Community Facilities Act of 1970 which would authorize an additional $1 billion for the
HUD Department's water and sewer facility program. The inability of local governments to afford the costs of dealing with
pollution of waterways has caused a slow-down or a complete cessation of building in many areas.
John Dempsey, Governor of Connecticut, and chairman, Rural and Urban Development Committee of the National Governors'
Conference: The Governors on the Committee are deeply concerned about the present lack of a comprehensive national
development policy which would suggest national goals and objectives. Major components of such a policy would include a
population growth and distribution policy, economic development, agricultural, human resource and national housing policies.
Several of the substantive matters in S 3639 should be considered in terms of effectuating a national policy on population growth
and distribution. No special incentives nor adjusted “development costs” are suggested, for example, for developers and
homeowners who would put up housing or take up residence in new communities.
The Governors support the provisions in S 3639 which consolidate and streamline many of the existing housing programs. But
housing problems exist in the states because of lack of sufficient funding of many HUD programs and lack of personnel with the
training and expertise to make programs move. States also have difficulty in acquiring sites for low- and moderate- income
housing at costs acceptable to the Federal Housing Administration.
July 15
Nathaniel S. Keith, president, National Housing Conference: The conference supports the objectives of the Administration bill for
simplification of the numerous Federal housing programs and for uniformity in basic provisions. But, as introduced, the bill would
produce inequities and would present serious roadblocks to the effective functioning of the programs.
The provisions in the bill calling for a higher percentage of income to be paid in certain low-income housing and eliminating
present deductions used in computing income would mean substantial increases in rents for many tenants. Persons living in
projects built under existing laws should not be forced to pay rent increases. In the case of cooperative housing projects, any
attempt to increase the occupancy charges of the members would violate contractual agreements with the members.
The conference agrees that there should be a uniform system for computing incomes in Federally assisted private housing and
low-rent public housing as contemplated in the Administration bill. But it recommends that the system allow deductions such as
2/8/10 1:33 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…ion=print&time=1265653910702&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
low-rent public housing as contemplated in the Administration bill. But it recommends that the system allow deductions such as
the existing allowable deductions in public housing for children. The bill should grant the HUD Secretary authority to establish
uniform standards for the computation of income, including fair and reasonable exclusions and deductions such as for social
security withholdings.
Albert B. Kaltenbach, director of public works for Baltimore County, Maryland, appearing for the National Association of Counties:
The Association strongly supports S 3938, the Emergency Community Facilities Act of 1970, to authorize an additional $1 billion
for the water and sewer grant program. The HUD Department has turned down more than $2.5 billion worth of local water and
sewer grant applications since the program began in 1966. Most of the applications were returned to the local governments
because of a lack of Federal funds.
The availability of community facilities, especially water and sewer lines, is directly related to the construction of housing in many
areas. In the next 10 years, Baltimore County will require $217 million to pay for basic water and sewer facilities.
Clay L. Cochran, chairman, National Rural Housing Coalition:
“It is a great temptation to streamline, but we urge the Committee not to yield to superficial remedy when major change is
required.” Some of the changes proposed by the Administration may result in adverse side effects, such as the elimination of
flexibility in income determination.
The coalition is concerned about the blurring of the distinction between public housing and other housing assistance programs
which may shift the focus of assistance further toward the moderate-income families rather than toward the lowest-income
families.
The Administration bill fails “to take even a first step” toward a national policy on both rural and urban America, and the bill does
not even contain a rural section.
Walter J. Monasch, president, American Institute of Planners:
S 3639 is important reform that is both timely and meritorious. High priority should be given in the legislation to encouraging
comprehensive planning which reflects the nation's concern for the environment, proper site design and adequate public services,
The Committee should emphasize that to be eligible for HUD mortgage assistance, all water and sewer facilities, mobile home
and health facilities, must meet comprehensive planning requirements.
The institute urges the Committee to reject the request for open-ended authorizations for the housing programs. For orderly
planning for the future, this legislation should reflect policy statements of need in each category.
July 20
Carter L. Burgess, chairman, National Corporation for Housing Partnerships:
The Corporation strongly endorses the Administration's effort in S 3639 to combine and simplify Federal housing programs.
Greater flexiblity in matters like mortgage amounts, cost limitations and interest rates should permit these programs to be used
more effectively. Higher and different mortgage amounts and cost limitations are necessary if housing is to be produced in the
different market areas of the country where construction costs vary.
William J. Hamilton, president, National Association of Real Estate Brokers:
Occupants of Federally assisted housing would be required to pay considerably higher monthly payments under S 3639, resulting
in serious hardships for many of the tenants. The association urges that all persons in such housing be permitted to continue
under existing regulations, with the new requirements in S 3639 to apply only to future housing.
The Association also opposes the elimination of deductions from income now allowable by local housing authorities for public
housing.
July 21
Nathaniel Goldfinger, director, department of research, AFL-CIO:
The Administration's housing program should be directed toward meeting the current housing crisis, but it does little to produce
new homes or ease the crisis.
A major problem for housing is the availability of mortgage funds at reasonable cost. The President has the power to establish
discretionary credit controls and to channel available credit at low-interest rates where it is needed. Congress should direct the
President to take steps to implement these discretionary controls.
Melvin J. Adams, development administrator, city of New Haven, Conn., testifying for the National Association of Housing and
Redevelopment Officials:
The single most urgent need for Congressional action in 1970 is for new authorizations to cover existing housing and urban
development programs. The Association recommends that Congress provide an additional $150 million for the fiscal 1971, public
housing program to add to the $170 million already authorized for the program and an additional $700 million for urban renewal in
fiscal 1971.
A new housing program should provide under one program for varying degrees of housing assistance for those who cannot meet
2/8/10 1:33 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…ion=print&time=1265653910702&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
A new housing program should provide under one program for varying degrees of housing assistance for those who cannot meet
private housing costs and it should relate the housing needs of the cities to the suburbs and rural areas. Such a program should
also permit maximum initiative and decision making at the local level.
July 22
Otis M. Mader, member of the board of directors, U.S. Chamber of Commerce:
Congress should take prompt action on S 3639. The bill would eliminate Federal housing program inconsistencies, consolidate
programs which have similar objectives, standardize elements common to similar programs and allow flexibility to meet local
needs. The bill could be improved to make mortgage insurance and subsidized housing cost limits more adaptable to local needs.
It is a step in the right direction to establish a uniform formula for determining payments by families in subsidized housing (20
percent of the first $3,500 annual income, plus 25 percent of income above that amount). But no such single arbitrary level can
be set that would be equitable for every housing area and the bill should provide that adjustments could be made appropriate to
the specific circumstances of different localities.
H. Harland Crowel Jr., realtor from Arlington, Va., representing National Association of Real Estate Boards:
The Section 235 home ownership program for low-income families, which is the prototype for a new homeownership program in
S 3639, is a more serious threat to the unsubsidized lower-priced housing market than high interest rates. The program has
made subsidy benefits almost totally unavailable to any low-income family while encouraging moderate-income families to reject
unsubsidized modestly priced housing because they can buy a more expensive subsidized home, often at less cost per month.
If the Section 235 program is extended or the new Administration proposal adopted, the legislation should make ineligible for
homeownership or rental housing assistance, families having an income in excess of 70 percent of the median income in the
area. No family should be permitted to qualify for any Federal interest reduction subsidy to purchase a home if that family could
qualify for an unsubsidized mortgage of as much as 85 percent of the median mortgage insured in the area.
July 24
Edward W. Brooke (R Mass.):
The “Brooke Amendment” in the 1969 housing bill authorized $75 million in contract authority for public housing for the following
purposes:
Eliminating operating deficits which exist in public housing authorities;
Assuring that local housing authorities have sufficient funds to maintain adequate operating and maintenance service and reserve
funds; and
Making up the loss in rental revenue caused by reducing tenants' rents, to a maximum of 25 percent of their income.
These provisions have not been implemented in the vigorous manner Congress intended. The Administration requested only $33
million in appropriations for fiscal 1971, although its own figures indicate that operating deficits alone stood at $100 million.
Jesse Gray, chairman, National Tenants Organization (NTO):
Supported section 3 of S 4086 introduced by Brooke which would require HUD to amend or supersede annual contributions
contracts with local housing agencies to guarantee the low-rent character of public housing and guarantee adequate operating
and maintenance services and reserve funds.
NTO endorsed a provision in S 4086 to permit public housing tenants to serve on the governing board of their local housing
agency, Would go further and recommend that public housing tenants constitute a majority on the boards.
If there must be a rent-to-income ratio as proposed in the Administration bill for public housing tenants, it should be no more
than 15 percent rather than 20 percent of a tenant's first $3,500. Data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics indicate that typically a
low-income family of four spends 16.4 percent of its income for rent.
July 27
Jenard Gross, president of National Apartment Association:
Provisions in the Administration bill liberalizing eligibility criteria for rent subsidies would result in extending the subsidies to half
the nation's families. “Families of relatively low income, but with ample assets” should not be eligible for Government rental
assistance.
“When there are 14 million American families earning less than $6,000 a year, it is difficult to comprehend how we can provide
subsidies for families earning up to $10,000 a year. Our nation's housing goal will be accomplished not by expanding the rolls of
subsidized tenants to embrace the great middle class, but by pursuing sound fiscal and monetary policies which strengthen the
economy through a more stable price level, thereby attracting more savings into thrift institutions.”
July 30
2/8/10 1:33 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…ion=print&time=1265653910702&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
Jacob K. Javits (R N.Y.):
It is necessary to give urgent consideration to supplementing the efforts of private enterprise to supply housing with some sort of
large-scale Governmental or quasi-Governmental entity. This could take the form of a Federal Housing Corporation established
and financed initially by the Federal Government to develop and manage low-income and moderate-income housing.
Until such a corporation can be developed, the first priority to help alleviate the housing shortage is to increase and extend the
authorizations for subsidized housing programs. For urban renewal, for example, there was a backlog of more than $3 billion in
applications at the end of fiscal 1970. The fiscal 1971 appropriations will be the largest ever ($1,350,000,000) and still will not be
adequate. The program needs a new three-year authorization at the level of $3 billion per year.
John J. Gunther, executive director, U.S. Conference of Mayors, testifying for the Conference and the National League of Cities:
The two organizations endorse S 3460, a bill to provide for the development and implementation of a national urban growth
policy. Such an urban growth policy should have three goals:
Alleviation of central city problems.
Encouragement of population distribution.
Guidance of the development of regional economic and employment centers.
A particularly useful provision in the bill is Title III, which provides a new vehicle for inner-city development. Action should be
taken, as Title III contemplates, to assist cities in acquiring lands for residential purposes which is presently occupied by obsolete
and uneconomic industrial or commercial uses.
REPORT. The Senate Banking and Currency Committee Sept. 21 reported S 4368 (S Rept 91-1216).
The Committee said S 4368 “is essentially a bill to extend and fund existing Federal housing programs authorized by previous
acts of Congress” and “to make them more workable and more effective in carrying out the intent of Congress.”
Three-year extensions were granted FHA's housing and mortgage loan insurance authorities, which were scheduled to expire in
fiscal 1971. Funding authorizations were extended for one year.
The Committee said it did not have enough time to consider Administration proposals in S 3639 that would have streamlined FHA
and public housing programs. It promised to consider those next year.
The Committee said its funding recommendations for housing assistance programs ($647 million) were adequate to meet the
national housing goal of 6 million Federally assisted units to be constructed or rebuilt by 1978.
Funding levels for urban renewal ($2 billion), model cities ($162.5 million) and other programs were aimed at continuing existing
programs plus meeting part of the Housing and Urban Development Department's backlog of aid applications, the Committee
said.
Floor Action
The Senate Sept. 23 by a 59-2 roll-call vote passed S 4368, the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1970, authorizing
$3,988,500,000 for housing and urban development programs. Nine amendments were accepted and six rejected. The bill then
went to the House. (Vote 307, p. 54-S)
The bill granted three-year extensions, through fiscal 1973, to programs due to expire in fiscal 1971 but extended authorizations
for only one year, through fiscal 1971.
No new programs were recommended in the bill, though significant changes were made in existing programs. Local cost factors
rather than national standards were made the basis for imposing ceilings on public housing construction costs. A direct Federal
crime insurance program was established for states where no effective solutions were available through state laws. Subsidies to
states to develop new communities and man transit systems were authorized for the first time.
The principal programs authorized in the bill included urban renewal, model cities and public housing as well as those
administered by the Federal Housing Administration. S 4368 was similar to the Administration's proposal (S 3639) except that the
simplification and consolidation of programs requested in S 3639 were not included in S 4368.
As passed by the Senate, S 4368 went beyond the Administration bill by permitting Federal financing of new communities as part
of a national urban growth policy. It required the President to make biennial reports on urban growth to the Congress, beginning
in February 1972.
DEBATE. A major issue in the debate concerned an amendment proposed by Carl T. Curtis (H Neb.) to Section 202 of Title II
defining a person's income for purposes of setting maximum rentals in public housing units. Under the Act, maximum rentals
were set at 25 percent of tenant income.
Curtis' amendment would have allowed local public housing agencies to fix rents without regard to the 25-percent limitation if
such housing was for the elderly and had no more than 200 dwelling units.
2/8/10 1:33 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 9 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…ion=print&time=1265653910702&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
Curtis said some public housing occupants were able to pay more than 25 percent of their income in rent. and that they should
not be prevented from doing so since the added money would help defray costs of operating public housing.
“So what I am asking for here is the right of people who want to, to collect enough rent to pay their obligations, and not to have
to ask for an additional subsidy,” said Curtis.
Edward W. Brooke (R Mass.) said Curtis' amendment could deny the benefits of the 25-percent rule to those who were not able to
pay as much rent. He suggested, as a compromise, that Curtis change his amendment to allow tenants to pay more than 25
percent of their income in rent if they certified their decision was made in full knowledge of the rule.
Curtis said he didn't think the change would work. The amendment was defeated by a 9-59 roll-call vote. (Vote 301, p. 54-S)
Lee Metcalf (D Mont.) offered an amendment striking out Section 1006 of the bill, which amended the Public Utilities Holding
Company Act of 1935 to authorize such companies to own or operate Federally assisted low- and moderate-income housing.
Metcalf said hearings had not been held on Section 1006 and that questions of conflict of interest could arise. He cited as an
example a situation in which a gas company would build houses that used gas heat.
Philip A. Hart (D Mich.) and John J. Sparkman (D Ala.) replied that the low-cost housing shortage must be attacked on the broadest
front. Hart said a utility is more likely than other businesses to build housing in deteriorating cities. “The construction itself is
subject to a good bit of red tape and regulation through HUD,” said Hart. “A utility in used to living with regulation.”
A motion by John G. Tower (R. Texas) to table Metcalf's amendment was adopted by a standing vote.
Another Curtis amendment would have limited Federal contributions for local public housing agencies to debt service
requirements by dropping subsidies for operational and maintenance expenses included in the 1969 HUD Act. The amendment
was rejected by a 11-50 roll call. (Vote 304, p. 54-S)
Sparkman, floor manager of the bill, said that when public housing first was written into law, it was provided that Government
support would not be limited to debt service.
“Unfortunately,” he said, “over the years the law was narrowly interpreted to limit the Federal contributions to take care of debt
service only.” In 1969, Congress made a specific legislative change to specify that Federal assistance could take care of certain
public housing costs in addition to debt service charges. The 1969 change in the law was further clarified in S 4368, he said.
PROVISIONS. As passed by the Senate, S 4368:
Title I—Mortgage Credit
Extended to Oct. 1, 1973, the authority of the Federal Housing Administration, under the National Housing Act of 1934, to insure
housing and other mortgage loans and Title I home improvement and mobile home loans.
Amended Section 235 of the National Housing Act to increase to $150 million from $125 million as of July 1, 1970, and to $250 million
from $170 million as of July 1, 1971, the total amount of contracts the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) could enter
into for periodic home-ownership assistance payments.
Amended Section 236 of the Act to increase to $250 million from $170 million as of July 1, 1971, the amount of contracts the
Secretary could sign for periodic interest reduction payments on behalf of owners of rental housing projects for low-income families.
Amended Section 101 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965 to add $37 million as of July 1, 1971, for rent supplements.
Amended Section 203 of the National Housing Act to lower minimum required down payments to 2 percent of the first $15,000 of
appraised value of the home, 10 percent of the value between $15,000 and $30,000, and 20 percent of the value over $30,000.
Amended Section 242 of the Act to increase to $50 million from $25 million the maximum insurable mortgage amount for hospitals.
Amended Section 242 of the Act to make profit-making entities eligible for FHA mortgage insurance for hospital construction or
rehabilitation.
Title II—Public Housing, Urban Renewal and Housing Assistance Programs
Amended the U.S. Housing Act of 1937 to increase authorizations for annual Federal grants to local public housing agencies under the
public housing program to $320 million from $170 million as of July 1, 1970, and by $275 million as of July 1, 1971.
Amended the Act to define income for the purpose of establishing maximum rentals at one-fourth of a tenant's income. Family income
would include all money received by each family member age 18 or older, less (1) income determined by the Secretary to be
nonrecurring, (2) five percent of the family's gross income, (3) $300 for each person under 18 and (4) other deductions allowed by the
Secretary in recognition of unusual circumstances, such as extraordinary illness expenses.
Prohibited states from lowering welfare payments to a tenant because of rent reductions brought on by the 25-percent rule.
Authorized the Secretary to make annual determinations of area prototype construction costs based on local conditions; precluded the
development cost of any project from exceeding the prototype cost by more than 10 percent.
2/8/10 1:33 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 10 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…on=print&time=1265653910702&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
development cost of any project from exceeding the prototype cost by more than 10 percent.
Increased the total of capital grants under the urban renewal program by $2 billion as of July 1, 1971, and required not less than 35
percent of available funds in fiscal 1971 through 1974 be made available for neighborhood development programs.
Provided that if the Secretary determines there was a classroom shortage in certain public housing projects he can reserve room in a
project for classrooms.
Increased by $12 million in fiscal 1972 the aggregate amount for annual debt service grants for college housing.
Title III—Model Cities and Metropolitan Development Programs
Authorized appropriations of $162.5 million for fiscal 1972 for the Model Cities Program and extended the availability period for
unexpended funds to July 1, 1974.
Authorized appropriations of $25 million for fiscal 1972 for comprehensive planning grants.
Authorized an increase to $500 million from $250 million in the guarantee fund for new communities land development and extended
the availability period of unexpended funds to July 1, 1974.
Authorized appropriations of $44 million for neighborhood facilities for fiscal 1972, to be added to $26 million in unused authorizations,
and extended the period of availability of unexpended funds to July 1, 1974.
Title IV—Consolidation of Open Space Land Programs
Amended Title VII of the Housing Act of 1961 to authorize a single program of grants for acquisition and development of open space in
urban areas for uses such as parks and historic preservation. It consolidated sections 702, 705, 706 and 709 of the 1961 Act.
Authorized the Secretary to make grants to states and local public bodies of up to 50 percent of project costs to finance the acquisition
or development of open spaces in urban areas.
Prohibited the conversion to other uses of open space land acquired under the title without the prior approval of the Secretary.
Authorized the Secretary to make grants to states and local public bodies to cover up to 75 percent of the cost of acquiring
undeveloped land which, if withheld from commercial development, would help shape desirable patterns of urban growth.
Authorized $100 million for fiscal 1971 for grants under the title.
Title V—Research and Technology
Authorized the Secretary to undertake research, testing and demonstrations he deemed necessary to determine the effectiveness of
programs administered by the HUD Department.
Authorized the Secretary to conduct research into the effectiveness of providing low-income families with housing of their choice.
Authorized $15 million for each of fiscal years 1972–1974 for the program'
Title VI—Crime Insurance
Provided direct Federal insurance for properties in areas where state and Federal reinsurance programs did not provide coverage or
where rates were prohibitive. Insurance would cover robbery. burglary and larceny and would become effective Aug. 1, 1971, or at the
end of the first regular session of each state's legislature after enactment of the title, whichever came later. Auto and embezzlement
protection were not covered.
Title VII—Urban Growth and New Community Development
Provided that the President make biennial reports to Congress, beginning in February 1972, on assessments of Federal, state and
local policies affecting urban growth; analyses of future needs resulting from urbanization and steps being taken to meet those needs;
and recommendations for programs to carry out a national urban growth policy.
Contemplated four types of new communities under the Act: (1) economically balanced new communities within metropolitan areas as
alternatives to urban sprawl; (2) additions to existing smaller towns and cities which could be economically converted into growth
centers; (3) major in-town developments to help renew central cities, and (4) free-standing new communities built to accommodate
population growth.
Provided that a new community program would be eligible for assistance if it (1) provided an alternative to disorderly growth by helping
to preserve the environment or reversing migration; (2) was economically feasible; (3) contributed to the welfare of the surrounding
area; (4) was consistent with comprehensive plans for the area; (5) had been approved by state and local governments; (6) contributed
to good living conditions in a community having balanced and diversified land use and served by adequate public and commercial
facilities; (7) made substantial and appropriate provisions for low-and moderate-income housing and (8) made significant use of
advance technology.
2/8/10 1:33 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 11 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…on=print&time=1265653910702&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
Established the Community Development Corporation within HUD to administer the Secretary's guarantee and loan functions under the
title. The Corporation would be headed by a five-member board consisting of the Secretary, a General Manager appointed by the
President with the advice and consent of the Senate and three persons appointed by the Secretary.
Authorized the Secretary, acting through the Community Development Corporation, to guarantee $500 million in bonds issued to help
finance new community programs.
Authorized the Secretary to make supplementary grants to states and local public bodies to carry out public facilities projects in
support of new communities. The authorizations for appropriations for these grants would not exceed $36 million for fiscal 1971 and
$66 million for each of fiscal 1972 and 1973.
Authorized the Secretary, until  June 30, 1975, to assist private, new community developers in their planning. The aid could cover up to
two-thirds of the planning costs. Authorized $5 million upon enactment and another $5 million as of July 1, 1971.
Title VIII—Urban Mass Transportation
Provided emergency grants to help public mass transportation systems pay interest charges and other annual obligations, with the
qualification that the money was needed to stop the curtailment of large sections of a system or that curtailment would adversely affect
the welfare of large numbers of poor people. Grants would require a one-third local contribution.
Authorized appropriations of $75 million for each of fiscal 1971 through 1975 for the program.
Authorized interim grants to help public mass transit bodies defray annual operating deficits, provided such systems were needed to
maintain services included in an area's comprehensive development plan and the applicant had an approved, longe-range plan to
ensure the system's financial soundness. Grants would require a one-third local contribution.
Authorized appropriations of $75 million for each of fiscal 1971 through 1975 for the program.
Title IX—Farm Housing
Amended the Housing Act of 1949 to authorize the Secretary to insure loans for farm housing made by private lenders to nonprofit
groups of farmworkers incorporated within a state. Reduced the maximum interest rate on insurable loans to 3 from 5 percent and
included household furnishings in the definition of housing contained in the section.
Amended the Act to include state-chartered nonprofit groups or organizations of farmworkers as eligible for financial aid to provide
low-rent housing to domestic farm labor and reduced the contribution of the applicant to 10 percent from one-third of the total
development cost.
Title X—Miscellaneous
Defined “lead-based paint,” and prohibited persons from applying such paint inside any dwelling to which the Civil Rights Act of 1968
was applicable (primarily multi-family rental units). Provided a maximum civil penalty of $1,000 for violations.
Amended the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 to authorize such companies to construct, own or operate Federally assisted
low- and moderate-income housing. The Securities and Exchange Commission would retain authority to regulate holding company
activities.
Amendments Accepted
Sept. 23—Wallace F. Bennett (R Utah)—Of a technical nature relating to the definition of the term “lead-based paint.” Voice vote.
Charles E. Goodell (R N.Y.)—Authorize $25 million for a program to combat the problem of abandoned housing in urban areas.
Voice.
Jacob K. Javits (R N.Y.)—Technical amendment defining term “mortgage insurance premium” when used in Section 236(b) of the
National Housing Act of 1934. Voice.
Clifford P. Case (R N. J.)—Provide that if the Secretary of HUD finds a classroom shortage in public housing areas, he can
reserve room in a housing project for classrooms on a space-available basis. Voice.
Walter F. Mondale (D Minn.)—Assure that funds authorized for advice and assistance for low- and moderate-income families not
be limited to programs that utilize project mortgages but should be used for all types of Federally assisted housing programs.
Voice
John G. Tower (R Texas)—Delete from the bill the authority for dormitory housing under the National Housing Act and rent
supplements for such housing under the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965. Roll-call vote, 40-20. (Vote 305, p. 54-S)
Tower—Amend the Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act to require developers near airports to tell prospective buyers of the
potential noise and air pollution in the area. Voice.
Javits—Establish criteria to help the Secretary of HUD determine prototype public housing construction costs based on local
2/8/10 1:33 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 12 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…on=print&time=1265653910702&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
Javits—Establish criteria to help the Secretary of HUD determine prototype public housing construction costs based on local
factors and require that he determine such costs annually. Voice.
John J. Sparkman. (D Ala.)—Delete from the bill the section relating to expenditures by educational institutions in connection with
urban renewal projects. Voice.
Amendments Rejected
Sept. 23—Carl T. Curtis (R Neb.)—Provide that local public housing agencies could fix rents for low-rent projects for the elderly
where there were no more than 200 units without regard to the 25-percent family income provision of existing law. Roll-call vote,
9-59.
Lee Metcalf (D Mont.)—Strike from the bill the section amending the Public Utilities Holding Company Act of 1935 to allow
ownership by such companies in the fields of low- and moderate-income housing. Tower amendment to table adopted by a
standing vote (breakdown of vote not given).
Goodell—Increase to 60 percent from 45 percent mortgage ceilings for high-cost areas under subsidized multifamily housing
programs. Roll call, 12-50. (Vote 302, p. 54-S)
Curtis—Require greater utilization of home loans for poor families where such homes were adequate and available rather than
for construction of new homes in the same area. Roll call, 8-53. (Vote 303, p. 54-S)
Curtis—Provide that annual Federal grants to local public housing agencies be limited to debt service requirements. Roll call, 11–
50.
Javits—Authorize the Secretary to guarantee bonds for a public corporation to develop a two-block area of New York City
contiguous to the United Nations building. Roll call, 21–39. (Vote 306, p. 54–S)
House
Committee Action
HEARINGS. The House Banking and Currency Committee held hearings in June on the Administration housing bill (HR 16643),
the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1970 and other housing legislation.
Testimony June 2
George Romney, Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD):
The Administration housing bill has four goals:
To streamline the legislative authority for housing programs so that private builders, lenders and housing sponsors would not be
discouraged from participating in the programs by intricate processing and program requirements.
To gear income and construction cost limits for public housing to local income and cost factors rather than on nationwide standards.
To make eligibility requirements uniform for all subsidized Federal housing programs.
To increase the number of poor persons who can take advantage of the low-income rental and homeownership programs by raising
the subsidies in the programs.
Title I of HR 16643 would replace about 50 existing programs in the National Housing Act with eight new programs. In place of
nearly 40 existing programs dealing with home and rental properties there would be one authority for all unassisted
homeownership mortgages; one new authority dealing with all subsidized home mortgages; one new authority for all unassisted
rental mortgages; and one new authority for all subsidized rental mortgages.
One uniform standard would be set for income limits of families eligible to participate in public housing. The definition of income
and the percentage of income families were to contribute to their housing expense in subsidized housing would be made uniform.
Rigid dollar limitations on the cost of subsidized housing units would be replaced with a flexible formula geared to the cost of
producing moderate-income housing in different market areas throughout the country.
June 3
Hugh Curran, mayor of Bridgeport, Conn., testifying for National League of Cities and U.S. Conference of Mayors:
Cities need billions of dollars to meet problems in housing, community facilities, education, jobs, recreation, health and welfare. In
the face of these pressing demands, the cities “find it rather difficult to concentrate on a proposal by HUD whose primary
emphasis is restructuring of present housing programs.”
For the immediate future, it would be easier for Congress to simply increase present funding levels for existing housing and
community development programs. The following increases are needed:
Urban renewal—Increased fiscal 1971 authorization of $700 million which, when added to the existing $2.3 billion authorized, would
result in a $3-billion level. An annual $3-billion authorization in fiscal 1972, 1973 and 1974.
2/8/10 1:33 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 13 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…on=print&time=1265653910702&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
result in a $3-billion level. An annual $3-billion authorization in fiscal 1972, 1973 and 1974.
Model Cities—Fiscal 1972 authorization of $500 million which, when added to existing unappropriated authorizations, would give a
total for that year of about $1.3 billion, For fiscal 1973 and 1974, a $1.5-billion authorization.
Public Housing—An additional fiscal 1971 authorization of $150 million to provide an additional 100,000 units of housing. Also an
authorization of $350 million for fiscal 1972 $370 million for fiscal 1973 and $400 million for fiscal 1974.
Sections 235 and 236 subsidized housing programs—An additional authorization of $150 million for fiscal 1971, $200 million for fiscal
1972, $225 million for fiscal 1973 and $250 million for fiscal 1974.
Rent supplements—$80-million authorization for fiscal 1972, $85 million for fiscal 1973, and $90 million for fiscal 1974.
Nathaniel Goldfinger, director, department of research, AFL-CIO:
The American public should not be misled into believing that the Administration's bill proposes new and extensive housing
programs. It is a recodification of existing programs, which will produce few, if any, additional housing units. The housing
emergency is so severe that the Administration should give priority attention to new emergency programs that will produce the
millions of housing units so badly needed.
The most critical need is for mortgage funds at reasonable cost. Attempts to introduce new sources of funds into the mortgage
market have been blocked by financial lending institutions. These institutions have withdrawn funds from the traditional mortgage
market and loaned them at more attractive rates for commercial paper and other non-priority uses.
The President has failed to use the power given to him by Congress in 1969 to establish discretionary credit controls. Congress
should direct the President to take the necessary steps to implement these discretionary controls.
June 4
Philip N. Brownstein, appearing on behalf of the Council of Housing Producers:
The Council supports consolidation of the various home mortgage and mortgage insurance programs. It also supports the
objectives of flexible mortgage amounts and cost limitations, but questions whether the method of determining those amounts
should be left to the HUD through the development of prototype units “of modest design” in each housing market area.
What constitutes “modest design” would depend on the definition given by the responsible officials. This could result in the
establishment of cost limits which make it infeasible to build attractive housing to accomodate the needs of those for whom
occupancy is intended. Safeguards should be built into the legislation to assure that such a result is avoided.
The most critical factor retarding construction of subsidized sale and rental dwelling units has been the lack of subsidy funds. In
order to maintain the housing goals set in 1968, an increase in the authorization and funding for these programs is essential.
June 8
Henry Maier, mayor of Milwaukee, Wis., testifying on behalf of the National League of Cities and U.S. Conference of Mayors:
A national policy is needed to focus Federal programs and funds on the orderly and balanced development of urban areas. Such
a policy should be directed toward three major goals:
Alleviation of central city problems.
Encouragement of population redistribution to alleviate congestion and absorb new population growth.
Guidance of the development of regional economic and employment centers.
The bill should make clear that public and private organizations, particularly those representing local governments, will be
consulted by the Council on Urban Growth in formulating policy. A “fair share” of the funds to be channeled to developers by the
Community Development Corporation should go to existing communities for development.
June 9
John V. Lindsay (R), mayor of New York City:
The Administration housing hill (HR 16643) was “a step backward” because it narrowed rather than widened the scope of existing
housing programs. The bill had the following weaknesses:
It would have the effect of increasing rents for public housing tenants by requiring the tenants to pay 20 percent of their incomes under
$3,500 and 25 percent of their earnings above $3,500 in the form of a minimum rent.
It would place severe limits on how much could be spent to build new public housing.
It would freeze out of public housing previously eligible families by redefining the income limits within which tenants must fall.
2/8/10 1:33 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 14 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…on=print&time=1265653910702&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
(After Lindsay testified, HUD Secretary Romney issued a statement calling the mayor's remarks “irresponsible and inaccurate.”
He said Lindsay had done “a great disservice to the cities of the nation by so grossly misinterpreting the provisions of the
Administration's proposed legislation.”)
June 10
Norbert T. Tiemann (R), Governor of Nebraska, testifying for the National Governors' Conference:
The major concern of the bills before the Committee seems to be that of new communities. The scope and emphasis of a
national growth policy must depend on the prior development of population growth and location guidelines so that new
communities can be constructed in the appropriate places.
A new communities development policy must leave all sources of local financing open and flexible in order that states, local
communities and private developers can mix their legal and financial resources to adapt to local market conditions.
There must be policies for directing economic growth to areas which will be able to support business activity. Without
employment opportunities, existing and new communities will not grow.
June 11
H. Harland Crowell Jr., chairman, Realtors' Washington Committee of the National Association of Real Estate Boards:
The National Association supports the concept of HR 16643 to consolidate 50 existing housing programs into a package of eight
basic programs. But the Administration bill “seeks basically to provide a mechanism for redirecting basic subsidy programs into
housing production programs. The most important objective of housing subsidy programs should be to provide decent housing for
those most in need of it. No bill which makes more than 50 percent of the nation's people eligible for housing subsidies, as does
HR 16643, and which builds in ever-increasing mortgage and income limits for subsidized programs can be said to assist the
poor.
Subsidy dollars should go to families that “clearly and unmistakably need them,” and to assist only the construction of housing
needed to accommodate the poor.
Louis R. Barba, president of the National Association of Home Builders:
The proposals in HR 16643 to consolidate housing programs are “timely and meritorious.” But the proposed changes should be
carefully scrutinized to assure that good programs were not wiped out.
Federal Housing Administration programs, especially those for low-income and moderate-income families, “have been the
mainstays of the production we have had. It is for this reason that our members look with some apprehension upon any proposal
which would so completely rework the ground with which they are so familiar.”
REPORT. The House Banking and Currency Committee Sept. 29 reported a rewritten bill (HR 19436—H Rept 91-1556), the
Housing and Urban Development Act of 1970, authorizing $7,015,350,000 for various housing and urban programs.
HR 19436 incorporated features of four major bills: HR 16643, the Administration's consolidation proposal; HR 16647, the Urban
Growth and New Community Development Act of 1970; HR 17845, which provided extensions, and funding authorizations for all
Housing and Urban Development (HUD) programs, and HR 13666, the Urban Property Protection and Reinsurance Amendments
of 1970.
However, the Committee bill failed to include major Administration proposals calling for consolidation and simplification of public
housing programs. The Committee said limited time and the press of other business prevented it from examining the
Administration proposals but promised to do so next year.
The Senate's version of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1970 (S 4368), passed Sept. 23, authorized $3.9 billion.
Provisions
As reported by the Committee, HR 19436:
Title I—Urban Growth and New Community Development
Declared that the Federal Government must assume responsibility for a national urban growth policy that would serve as a guide in
making decisions affecting patterns of urban growth.
Created a Council on Urban Growth in the Executive Office of the President consisting of the Secretary of HUD and three members
appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate. The council would prepare a biennial report on urban growth,
policy, planning and coordination for the President.
Required the President to send to Congress a biennial report on urban growth beginning in February 1972.
Established a board to advise and assist the Council on Urban Growth. Its membership would include the chairman of the Advisory
Committee on Intergovermental Relations, three members of the Executive Branch; three private citizens, two Governors, two state
legislators, two mayors and two county officials.
2/8/10 1:33 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 15 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…on=print&time=1265653910702&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
Authorized $1,350,000 for fiscal 1971–73 for the council and advisory board.
Created a Community Development Corporation (CDC) within the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and a five-
man board of directors including the Secretary, a member of the Council on Urban Growth appointed by the President, a general
manager of the corporation appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate, and two persons appointed by the Secretary.
Authorized the CDC to help eligible developers plan and carry out new community programs provided the programs (1) included most
of the basic activities associated with a city, (2) had a favorable impact on the development of the surrounding area, (3) were open to
all national and racial groups as families or individuals, (4) contained a range of sale and rental housing for persons of all incomes with
a minimum of segregation by income and social grouping and (5) was planned to be responsive to future residents.
Made a new community eligible for assistance only if the Secretary determined that it (1) was an alternative to disorderly growth
helping to enhance the environment or so improved conditions in existing communities as to help reverse migration, (2) was
economically feasible, (3) contributed to the welfare of the surrounding area, (4) was consistent with comprehensive planning in
relation to other state, local and private plans, (5) was approved by state and local governments, (6) had well-balanced and diversified
land-use patterns and was served by adequate public and commercial facilities, (7) made substantial provisions for low- and
moderate-income people and (8) made significant use of advanced technology.
Authorized 75-percent planning grants to new community developers and authorized appropriations of $5 million on enactment and $5
million in fiscal 1972 for the grants.
Authorized the CDC to guarantee the bonds and other obligations of new community developers to help finance approved programs.
The obligations guaranteed could not exceed $50 million for a single program or $650 million for all projects.
Authorized the CDC to make loans to new community developers to assist them in making interest payments on indebtedness for
approved programs. The interest loans outstanding at any time could not exceed $20 million for a single program and $240 million for
all programs.
Authorized $15 million for fiscal 1971–73 for grants to new community developers for essential municipal services during the early
years (not more than three) of a new development.
Authorized supplementary grants of $168 million in fiscal 1971–73 to states and local bodies carrying out public facilities projects in
support of new communities. The $30 million authorized for supplementary grants under the HUD Act of 1968 would be available.
Allowed the CDC, upon authorization by the President and with funds made available by Congress, to carry out large-scale, new
community projects on Federal land to serve as models.
Amended the Housing Act of 1949 to make eligible for urban renewal grants the acquisition by local public agencies of vacant or
under-used land which could be developed for housing, schools, hospitals, parks or public facilities in conjunction with the
redevelopment of inner-city areas.
Amended the Housing Act of 1961 to authorize the Secretary to make grants to states and local public bodies to cover not more than
75 percent of the cost of buying interests in undeveloped land which, if withheld from commercial or residential development, would
help shape desirable patterns of urban growth.
Title II—Mortgage Credit
Amended the National Housing Act of 1934 to extend to Oct. 1, 1971, all programs of the Federal Housing Administration (FHA),
except the home-ownership (Section 235) and rental (Section 236) assistance and rent supplement programs, which were extended to
Oct. 1, 1973.
Amended Section 235 of the National Housing Act to increase the total amount of contracts the Secretary could sign by $25 million in
fiscal 1971, $30 million in fiscal 1972, $225 million in fiscal 1973 and $250 million in fiscal 1974.
Amended Section 236 of the National Housing Act to increase the amount of contracts the Secretary could sign by $25 million in fiscal
1971, $30 million in fiscal 1972, $225 million in fiscal 1973 and $250 million in fiscal 1974.
Amended the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965 to increase the amount of contracts for rent supplements by $80 million in
fiscal 1972, $85 million in fiscal 1973 and $90 million in fiscal 1974.
Amended Sections 221 and 236 of the National Housing Act to authorize the Secretary to insure mortgages covering dormitory-type
rental projects for the displaced, elderly or handicapped which may contain common areas for cooking, dining and other uses.
Amended the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965 to authorize rent supplements for owners of dormitory-type rental projects
for the displaced, elderly or handicapped.
Amended the National Housing Act to allow the Secretary, in addition to his existing authority, to raise Section 221 (d) (3) (privately
developed) per unit cost limits by up to 65 percent in areas where it was necessitated by construction costs.
Amended Section 235 of the National Housing Act to allow up to 30 percent of the contracts for home-ownership assistance
authorized by appropriations for fiscal 1970–74 be made for existing dwellings.
2/8/10 1:33 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 16 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…on=print&time=1265653910702&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
Amended Section 235 of the National Housing Act to prevent the use of home-ownership assistance where a family can qualify for an
unsubsidized mortgage for existing housing to be insured under Section 203 of the Act.
Amended the National Housing Act to increase to $50 million from $25 million the maximum mortgage amount for mortgages covering
new or rehabilitated hospitals and expanded the program to cover private hospitals.
Amended Sections 221 and 236 of the National Housing Act to authorize the use of available facilities in rental or cooperative housing
projects for classrooms where public schools are overcrowded due in part to the project.
Title III—Urban Renewal and Housing Assistance Programs
Authorized $3 billion for urban renewal in fiscal 1972 and reserved a minimum of 35 percent of the funds for neighborhood
development programs.
Increased the authorization for grants under the low-rent public housing program by $150 million (to $320 million from $170 million) in
fiscal 1971, by $275 million in fiscal 1972, by $300 million in fiscal 1973 and by $350 million in fiscal 1974.
Increased by $12 million in fiscal 1972 the annual debt-service grants for college housing.
Amended the Housing Act of 1937 to include within the meaning of “low-rent housing” dormitory-type dwellings to be occupied by
displaced, elderly or handicapped persons, of low income, which may contain common dining, kitchen, and other facilities.
Title IV—Model Cities and Metropolitan Development Programs
Authorized $500 million for model cities and $30 million for comprehensive planning grants in fiscal 1972.
Authorized $500 million for basic water and sewer facilities and $50 million for neighborhood facilities in 1972
Title V—Consolidation of Open Space Land Programs
Amended Title VII of the Housing Act of 1961 to authorize $90 million in fiscal 1972 for a single program of grants for purchase and
development of open space land in urban areas for uses such as parks and historic preservation. The new program consolidated
Sections 702, 705, 706 and 709 of the amended title.
Title VI—Research and Technology
Authorized the Secretary to undertake such research, testing and demonstration programs as deemed appropriate.
Title VII—Urban Property Protection and Reinsurance Program
Authorized the Secretary of HUD to provide standard lines of property insurance on a direct basis where the Federal reinsurance
program or state and private plans are unavailable or are available at unreasonable rates. Coverage would include burglary, theft.
vandalism and malicious mischief; insurance could apply to residences during construction or rehabilitation and would extend to April
30, 1987.
Limited coverage to $25,000 for a single family residence and $1 million for a manufacturing or commercial structure.
Authorized the Secretary to make grants or loans to owners of residences which need rehabilitation to make them insurable at
reasonable rates.
Title VIII—Rural Housing
Amended the Housing Act of 1949 to authorize the Secretary to insure loans for farm labor housing made by private lenders to public
or private nonprofit groups of farmworkers.
Amended the 1949 Act to include state-chartered public or private nonprofit groups, or any nonprofit group of farmworkers, as eligible
to receive financial aid for providing low-rent housing to domestic farm labor and reduced the contribution required of the applicant to
10 percent from 33 percent of the total development cost.
Amended the 1949 Act to increase the maximum amount of each loan or grant which the Secretary of Agriculture may make for minor
improvements to farm housing and buildings to $3,500 from $1,500.
Amended the 1949 Act to authorize an increase in the maximum loan allowable under the rural rental housing program for the elderly
to $500,000 from $300,000.
Title IX—Miscellaneous
2/8/10 1:33 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 17 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…on=print&time=1265653910702&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
Authorized $9 million in three years for Secretary of HUD to guarantee payments on performance bonds under the Small Business Act.
Made it a crime to purchase one-to-four-family dwellings subject to FHA-insured or Veterans Administration loans and apply the rent
receipts to one's own use instead of making payments on such loans.
Raised to 20 percent from 15 percent the limitation on funds which Federal savings and loan associations could invest in multi-family
dwellings.
Floor Action
The House Dec. 3 by a 328-30 roll-call vote passed HR 19436, the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1970, authorizing
$2,416,000,000 for housing, urban renewal and model cities programs. The bill also included a new program for Federal crime
insurance.
Sixteen amendments to the bill were accepted and seven rejected. The bill then went to conference with the Senate. (Vote 215,
p. 76-H)
The bill as passed was a substitute offered by Robert G. Stephens Jr. (D Ga.) for the Committee version reported Oct. 5. The
Committee version had authorized $7,015,350,000 for various HUD programs.
During two days of debate, a broad program for new communities development (Title I), which was included in the Senate bill
and the version approved by the House Banking and Currency Committee, was deleted from the Stephens substitute on a teller
vote of 94 to 81. The Nixon Administration had opposed Title I as too expensive.
An Administration-backed attempt to get the House to pass a different substitute, embodying provisions of a bill (HR 19851)
introduced by Garry E. Brown (R Mich.), that would have reduced total authorizations to $695 million, was defeated on a 94 to 101
teller vote.
An amendment offered by Ben Blackburn (R Ga.) aimed at preventing the HUD Department from tying grants to suburban
communities for water and sewer facilities to provisions for low-income housing, was approved by voice vote without debate.
Other amendments to delete a new Federal crime insurance program (Title VII), a $1.5-billion authorization for urban renewal
(Title III) and $250 million for model cities (Title IV) were defeated.
DEBATE. Floor debate Dec. 2 concerned the amendment offered by Brown as a substitute for the Stephens version.
Brown said his substitute was not “a barebones nor a skeleton…rather it continues all existing HUD programs” and in some
cases increases their authorizations above the Committee bill. He cited a letter from HUD Secretary George Romney supporting
the substitute.
What it does, he said, “is to permit us to proceed in an orderly fashion to continue the programs at adequate funding levels so
that next year we can come in and have all the time necessary to consider and deliberate over a comprehensive housing and
urban development bill ….”
Thomas L. Ashley (D Ohio), a member of the Banking and Currency Subcommittee on Housing, and William A. Barrett (D Pa.),
chairman of the Subcommittee, spoke against the Brown amendment.
Ashley said it contained no authorization for Section 235 housing (homeownership assistance), Section 236 housing (rental
assistance), rent supplements, urban renewal or new communities. He complained that a national urban growth policy and
assistance to new communities, both of which had been urged by President Nixon, were missing from the amendment.
Stephens, also a member of the Subcommittee, introduced his substitute as a compromise aimed at overcoming three objections
to the Committee bill which he felt threatened its approval:
Establishment of an Urban Growth Council in the office of the President (Title I). Opponents of the Committee version said the
President should be free to run his office as he saw fit.
Total authorizations of more than $7 billion. Opponents said it was inflationary and wasteful.
Authority for HUD to write fire, property and crime insurance in areas where private or state insurance programs were lacking or where
rates were excessive. Opponents said the program would be costly and an undue Federal intervention in an area of private enterprise.
The Stephens substitute deleted the Urban Growth Council completely, reduced funding authorizations to $2.8 billion and deleted
HUD's authority to write fire and property insurance, while keeping the crime insurance program.
The substitute was immediately endorsed by Barrett and William B. Widnall (R N.J.), the ranking Republican on the Housing
Subcommittee.
Earlier on Dec. 2, an attempt to kill the bill by defeating the special rule for consideration of the bill, failed on a 344-22 roll-call
vote. (Vote 214, p. 76-H)
Debate Dec. 3 concerned amendments that would have eliminated Title I (Urban Growth and New Community Development) and
2/8/10 1:33 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 18 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…on=print&time=1265653910702&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
Debate Dec. 3 concerned amendments that would have eliminated Title I (Urban Growth and New Community Development) and
Title VII (Crime Insurance) from the Stephens substitute.
Title I Amendment. Lawrence G. Williams (R Pa.) offered the amendment killing Title I. “I do not believe that legislation of this
scope and complexity should be enacted now,” he said. “At the very least, we should await the results of the study of urban
growth policies that is under way within the White House Domestic Council.”
Williams said the title had many “dubious features,” among them: authority for direct Federal development of new communities on
Federally owned lands, rather than providing Federal assistance to private or local public bodies; authority for direct Federal
grants to new communities for municipal expenses for up to three years, and establishment of a “virtually independent”
Community Development Corporation within HUD, with functions that would overlap other HUD agencies. He said enactment of
Title I would result in less money for vitally needed housing construction.
Ashley, who helped draft the Title I provision, said Williams' position was contrary to the Republican party platform and the
President's 1970 State of the Union message. The fallacy in Williams' position, Ashley said, is his assertion that the purpose of
the bill is solely to provide housing. “With planning and with ingenuity. both public and private, it is possible to achieve through
new community development a far more suitable living environment than we presently enjoy.”
Ashley pointed out that much of the land in the nation, particularly in the cities, was uneconomically used but ineligible for
redevelopment through urban renewal because the renewal program applied only to slum land. Title I would correct that
deficiency, he said.
Roman C. Pucinski (D Ill.) said, “If this (Title I) legislation is approved, it will open up a whole new dimension of opportunity for
urban areas, and every city in the country will be able to put such land to use, land which now is totally useless to the cities and
is not bringing in taxes but is just lying there. We have not been able to touch those areas because of limitations of existing law.”
Fernand J. St. Germain (D R.I.), a member of the Housing Subcommittee, said the authorization contained in Title I–$411 million-
was “negligible if we spend it today. If we wait, it will cost us 50 to 100 times as much.”
The amendment to kill the title on crime insurance was offered by Blackburn, who said it was without precedent and “extremely
dangerous” because “we do not know how much money we are talking about.”
Frank Annunzio (D Ill.), who drafted the title, said “crime insurance is long overdue,” since the government already insures banks,
savings and loan associations and credit unions.
Annunzio cited two recent Washington, D.C., robberies in which the owners of small businesses were killed. “They might still be
alive had they not sought to protect their property, which was uninsured because of the cost of that insurance,” said Annunzio.
Claude Pepper (D Fla.) said “the traditional American reliance on the insurance industry—a reliance that has helped this country
grow—is not proving adequate to meet the challenge today. The problem of crimes against businesses has become so severe
that where theft, burglary and robbery insurance are available, their cost is prohibitive.”
PROVISIONS. As passed by the House, HR 19436:
(Title I was deleted by amendment.)
Title II—Mortgage Credit
Amended the National Housing Act of 1934 to extend to Oct. 1, 1972, all programs of the Federal Housing Administration (FHA).
Amended Section 235 of the National Housing Act to increase the total amount of contracts the HUD Secretary could sign by $25
million in fiscal 1971 and an additional $15 million in fiscal 1972.
Amended Section 221 and 236 of the National Housing Act to increase the amount of contracts the Secretary could sign by $25
million in fiscal 1971 and an additional $15 million in fiscal 1972.
Amended the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965 to increase the amount of contracts for rent supplements by $40 million in
fiscal 1972.
Amended Sections 221 and 236 of the National Housing Act to authorize the Secretary to insure mortgages covering dormitory-type
rental projects for the displaced, elderly or handicapped which may contain common areas for cooking, dining and other uses.
Amended the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965 to authorize rent supplements for owners of dormitory-type rental projects
for the displaced, elderly or handicapped.
Amended the National Housing Act to allow the Secretary, in addition to his existing authority, to raise Section 221 (d) (3) (privately
developed) per unit cost limits by up to 65 percent in areas where it was necessitated by construction costs.
Amended Section 235 of the National Housing Act to allow up to 30 percent of the contracts for home-ownership assistance
authorized by appropriations for fiscal 1970–72 to be made for existing dwellings.
Amended Sections 235 of the National Housing Act to prevent the use of home-ownership assistance where a family could qualify for
an unsubsidized mortgage for existing housing and he insured under Section 203 of the Act.
2/8/10 1:33 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 19 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…on=print&time=1265653910702&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
Amended the National Housing Act to increase to $50 million from $25 million the maximum amount for mortgages covering new or
rehabilitated hospitals and expanded the program to cover private hospitals.
Amended Sections 221 and 236 of the National Housing Act to authorize the use of available facilities in rental or cooperative housing
projects for classrooms where public schools are overcrowded due in part to the project.
Included two-family and three-family, owner-occupied dwellings in the definition of “single-family dwelling.”
Authorized joint funding by the HUD Department and the states of Section 236 (rental assistance) payments.
Title III—Urban Renewal and Housing Assistance Programs
Authorized $1.5 billion for urban renewal in fiscal 1972 and reserved a minimum of 35 percent of the funds for neighborhood
development programs.
Increased the authorization for grants under the low-rent public housing program by $150 million (to $320 million from $170 million) in
fiscal 1971 and by $175 million in fiscal 1972.
Increased by $12 million in fiscal 1972 the annual debt-service grants for college housing.
Amended the Housing Act of 1937 to include within the meaning of “low-rent housing” dormitory-type dwellings to be occupied by
displaced, elderly or handicapped persons of low income, which may contain common dining, kitchen and other facilities.
Title IV—Model Cities and Metropolitan Development Programs
Authorized $250 million for model cities and $30 million for comprehensive planning grants in fiscal 1972.
Authorized $50 million for neighborhood facilities in fiscal 1972.
Title V—Consolidation of Open Space Land Programs
Amended Title VII of the Housing Act of 1961 to authorize $90 million in fiscal 1972 for a single program of grants for purchase and
development of open space land in urban areas for uses such as parks and historic preservation. The new program consolidated
Sections 702, 705, 706 and 709 of the amended title.
Title VI—Research and Technology
Authorized the HUD Secretary to undertake such research, testing and demonstration programs as deemed appropriate.
Title VII—Crime Insurance
Authorized the HUD Secretary to provide crime insurance on a direct basis where the Federal reinsurance program or state and private
plans are unavailable or are available at unreasonable rates. Coverage would include burglary, theft, robbery and larceny.
Title VIII—Rural Housing
Amended the Housing Act of 1949 to authorize the HUD Secretary to insure loans for farm labor housing made by private lenders to
public or private nonprofit groups of farmworkers.
Amended the 1949 Act to include state-chartered public or private nonprofit groups, or any nonprofit group of farmworkers, as eligible
to receive financial aid for providing low-rent housing to domestic farm labor and reduced the contribution required of the applicant to
10 percent from 33 percent of the total development cost.
Amended the 1949 Act to increase the maximum amount of each loan or grant which the Secretary of Agriculture may make for minor
improvements to farm housing and buildings to $3,500 from $1,500.
Amended the 1949 Act to authorize an increase in the maximum loan allowable under the rural rental housing program for the elderly
to $500,000 from $300,000.
Transferred responsibility for migrant housing to HUD from the Office of Economic Opportunity (OEO) and authorized a total of $30
million for fiscal 1971–73 for assistance in constructing such housing.
Title IX—Miscellaneous
Authorized $9 million for three years to the HUD Secretary to guarantee payments on performance bonds under the Small Business
Act.
Made it a crime to purchase one-to-four-family dwellings subject to FHA-insured or Veterans Administration loans and apply the rent
2/8/10 1:33 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 20 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…on=print&time=1265653910702&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
receipts to one's own use instead of making payments on such loans.
Raised to 20 percent from 15 percent the limitation on funds which Federal savings and loan associations could invest in multifamily
dwellings.
Amended the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1969 to allow the General Services Administration to give the HUD Secretary
surplus land for construction of private ownership housing in addition to land for construction of rental housing.
Provided that in considering a grant or loan application for HUD programs, decisions on such applications must be made only on those
factors called for in the law establishing the program.
Included certain enlisted military personnel in the category of low-income families qualified for rent supplements and rental assistance.
Amended the Savings and Loan Company Amendments of 1967 to allow a savings and loan company that was part of a holding
company to finance home construction projects by its own service corporation.
Extended until  1973 the export quotas on softwood logs (used in housing construction) of 350 million board feet a year. The quota was
to expire Jan. 1, 1971.
Gave the Federal Home Loan Bank Board authority to prohibit any employee of a member institution from participating in a financial
transaction that would result in a conflict of interest.
Amendments Accepted
Dec. 2—Ben Blackburn (R Ga.)—Amendment to Brown substitute (below)—In evaluating applications for water and sewer grants,
HUD shall not take housing considerations into account. (Later nullified by defeat of Brown substitute.) Voice.
Robert L. F. Sikes (D Fla.)—Amendment to Brown substitute (below)—Include certain enlisted military personnel in the category of
low-income families qualified for rent supplements and rental assistance. (Later nullified by defeat of Brown substitute.) Voice.
Frank J. Brasco (D N.Y.)—Amendment to Stephens substitute (below)—Give the Federal Home Loan Bank Board authority to
prohibit any employee of a member institution from participating in a financial transaction that would result in a conflict of interest.
Voice.
Olin E. Teague (D Texas)—Amendment to Stephens substitute (below)—Of a clarifying nature involving comprehensive plans for
land development. Voice.
Dec. 3—Henry S. Reuss (D Wis.)—Amendment to Stephens substitute (below)—Amend the Housing and Urban Development Act
of 1969 to allow the General Services Administration to give the HUD Secretary surplus land for construction of housing for
ownership in addition to rental housing as already provided for. Voice.
Blackburn—Amendment to Stephens substitute (below)—In considering a grant or loan application for a HUD program, decisions
must be made only on those factors called for in the law establishing the program. (Amendment would prevent HUD from tying
grants for water and sewer facilities, for example, to provisions for low-income housing.) Voice.
Sikes—Amendment to Stephens substitute (below)—Include certain enlisted military personnel in the category of low-income
families qualified for rent supplements and rental assistance. (Amendment could affect an estimated 275,000 families.) Voice.
Fernand J. St Germain (D R.I.)—Amendment to Stephens substitute (below)—Include two- and three-family, owner-occupied
dwellings in the definition of “single-family dwelling.” Voice.
B. F. Sisk (D Calif.)—Amendment to Stephens substitute (below)—Transfer responsibility for migrant housing to HUD from the
Office of Economic Opportunity and authorize a total of $30 million for fiscal 1971–73 for assistance in constructing such housing.
Voice.
Sisk—Amendment to Stephens substitute (below)—Amend the Savings and Loan Company Amendments of 1967 to provide that
a savings and loan company that was part of a holding company could finance home construction projects by its own service
corporation. Voice.
Charles Raper Jonas (R N.C.)—Amendment to Stephens substitute (below)—Require the Community Development Corporation to
obtain its funds through regular appropriations channels rather than through obligations issued to the Treasury Department.
Standing vote, 39-25. (Later nullified by adoption of Williams amendment.)
Jonas—Amendment to Stephens substitute (below)—Provide that the Community Development Corporation prepare a business-
type budget to be sent to the Congress according to the Government Corporation Control Act for wholly-owned Government
corporations. Voice. (Later nullified by adoption of Williams amendment.)
Lawrence G. Williams (R Pa.)—Amendment to Stephens substitute (below)—Strike Title I from the bill. Standing, 75–55; teller vote,
94–81.
William B. Widnall (R N.J.)—Amendment to Stephens substitute (below)—Authorize joint funding by the state and HUD of Section
236 (rental assistance) payments. Voice.
2/8/10 1:33 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 21 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…on=print&time=1265653910702&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
Al Ullman (D Ore.)—Amendment to Stephens substitute (below)—Extend until Dec. 31, 1973, export quotas on softwood logs of
350 million board feet a year. Voice.
Robert G. Stephens Jr. (D Ga.)—Amend HR 19436 by substituting provisions of Stephens' proposal. Voice.
Amendments Rejected
Dec. 2—Garry E. Brown (R Mich.)—Amend HR 19436 by substituting provisions of HR 19851 for the Stephens amendment in the
nature of a substitute bill. Voice.
Dec. 3—Ben Blackburn (D Ga.)—Amendment to Stephens substitute (above)—Strike Title VII from the bill. Teller vote, 48–84.
John Brademas (D Ind.)—Amendment to Stephens substitute (above)—Allow the Secretary of Agriculture to make loan guarantees
to buyers of mobile homes under the rural housing program administered by the Farmers Home Administration. Voice.
Chalmers P. Wylie (R Ohio)—Amendment to Stephens substitute (above)—Delete the $1.5 billion for urban renewal grants for
fiscal 1972. Standing vote, 30–65.
Philip M. Crane (R Ill.)—Amendment to Stephens substitute (above)—Delete provisions for rental assistance for projects financed
by state or local programs and delete the $250 million for model cities in fiscal 1972. Voice.
Bob Casey (D Texas)—Amendment to Stephens substitute (above)—Provide that Section 236 (rental assistance) projects be
approved by local officials or be part of a community improvement program. Voice.
Jonathan B. Bingham (D N.Y.)—Amendment to Stephens substitute (above)—Give the HUD Secretary discretionary authority to
establish income limitations for families in housing built under the Section 236 (rental assistance) program. Voice.
Further Senate Action
Following House passage of HR 19436, the Senate Dec. 8 passed HR 19436 by voice vote after substituting the language of S
4368, a similar bill passed by the Senate Sept. 23.
Before passing HR 19436, the Senate further amended the bill by adopting by voice vote an amendment offered by Wallace F.
Bennett (R Utah) that would make banks in American Samoa eligible for Federal deposit insurance.
Conference Report
House and Senate conferees filed a report on HR 19436 (H Rept 91-1784) Dec. 17. Differences in funding authorizations
between House and Senate versions were compromised in almost every case by taking a figure midway between the House and
Senate amounts.
Following were the major actions taken by conferees to resolve differences:
Homeownership Assistance. The House bill contained a provision barring the use of homeownership assistance (Section 235)
in a situation in which a family could qualify for an unsubsidized mortgage on existing housing. Conferees dropped the provision
because “the limitation would have made it difficult, if not impossible, to build needed new housing units in many areas of the
country, and it would have created serious administrative problems and inequities among families otherwise eligible to participate
in the Section 235 program.” Conferees urged HUD to exclude administratively Section 235 assistance to any family which could
afford to buy a home without a subsidy.
Crime Insurance. The Senate bill provided that the provision would become effective Aug. 1, 1971, or at the close of the first full
regular session of a state legislature, whichever was later. The House bill specified that the program would become effective
upon enactment of the bill. Conferees set the effective date at Aug. 1, 1971.
Mass Transit Aid. The Senate bill authorized $750 million in fiscal years 1971–75 for grants to public mass transit systems to
defray annual operating deficits, interest charges and other annual obligations. The House bill contained no such provision.
Conferees dropped the provision, saying Congress should wait for the results of a Transportation Department feasibility study on
assistance to mass transit systems, due on Oct. 15, 1971.
New Communities. The Senate bill included a title setting forth a national growth policy, requiring a biennial report on urban
growth to be sent by the President to Congress, and establishing a greatly expanded program of guarantees; loans and grants
for new community development. The House bill contained no such provisions. Conferees included the Senate version with minor
changes.
Migrant Housing. The House bill contained a provision not in the Senate bill allowing HUD to provide housing for migrant
farmworkers and authorizing $30 million for three years. Conferees dropped the provision.
Lead Based Paint. The Senate bill contained a provision not in the House bill authorizing HUD to impose a civil penalty for
violating a law prohibiting the use of lead based paint on home interiors. Conferees rejected the provision because a bill covering
the lead based paint issue (HR 19172) was being considered separately. (The bill was sent to a House-Senate conference Dec.
29.)
Public Utilities. The Senate bill contained a provision not in the House bill permitting public utilities to participate in construction
2/8/10 1:33 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 22 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…on=print&time=1265653910702&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
Public Utilities. The Senate bill contained a provision not in the House bill permitting public utilities to participate in construction
of low- and moderate-income housing. Conferees rejected the provision.
Federal Home Loan Bank Board. The House bill contained a provision clarifying the authority of the board to regulate insured
savings and loan associations in situations where conflicts of interest were likely to appear. The Senate bill did not contain such a
provision and it was dropped from the conference version. Conferees said the board had enough authority to regulate member
associations and agreed to postpone consideration of additional authority until 1971, when hearings could be held.
Nonstatutory Factors. The House bill contained a provision barring HUD from using criteria other than those called for in
statutes in assessing applications for HUD programs. The Senate bill contained no such provision, and it was dropped by
conferees. The provision was aimed at preventing HUD from tying grants for water and sewer facilities, for example, to provisions
for low- and moderate-income housing.
Final Action
Senate. The Senate adopted the conference report on HR 19436 Dec. 18 by voice vote with little debate. Senators Charles H.
Percy (R Ill.), Charles E. Goodell (R N.Y.) and Jacob K. Javits (R N.Y.), while favoring the bill as a whole, expressed disappointment
that mass transit aid had been deleted by conferees.
House. The House adopted the report Dec. 19 by a roll-call vote of 168-104. (Vote 246, p, 84-H)
Strong opposition to the bill was voiced by Charles Raper Jonas (R N.C.), Minority Leader Gerald R. Ford (R Mich.), Joe D. Waggoner
(D La.) and Lawrence G. Williams (R Pa.).
The bill was supported by Wright Patman, chairman of the Banking and Currency Committee, William A. Barrett (D Pa.), chairman
of the Housing Subcommittee, and Thomas L. Ashley (D Ohio).
Pat man said House conferees prevailed on two out of every three items of difference with the Senate. “The conferees are proud
of what they did,” he said. “because they examined the bill very thoroughly, very carefully, and sat for several (three) days trying
to agree.”
Features
Breakdown of Authorizations
Following, is the breakdown by title of the authorizations contained in the final provisions of HR 19436. The fiscal years the
authorizations are applicable are shown in parentheses. No money was authorized in the bill under Titles VI and VIII.
Title I
Home ownership assistance (1971–72) $ 55,000,000
Rental assistance (1971–72) 55,000,000
Rent supplements (1972) 40,000,000
Title II
Urban renewal (1972) 1,500,000,000
Public housing (1971–72) 375,000,000
College housing (1972) 12,000,000
Title III
Model cities grants (1972) 200,000,000
Model cities planning (1972) 30,000,000
Neighborhood facilities (1972) 50,000,000
Title IV
Open spaces (1972) 100,000,000
Title V
Housing allowance demonstration (1972–73) 20,000,000
Abandoned property demonstration (1972) 20,000,000
Title VII
Planning grants (1971–72) 10,000,000
Supplementary grants (1971–73) 168,000,000
Loans on interest charges (1971) 240,000,000
Title IX
Technical assistance (1971–73) 4,500,000
Tenant organizations (1971) 5,000,000
TOTAL $2,884,500,000
Document Citation
"Congress Authorizes $2.9 Billion for Housing Programs." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal70-1294822.
2/8/10 1:33 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 23 of 23http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…on=print&time=1265653910702&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
Originally published in CQ Almanac 1970 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1971). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal70-1294822
(accessed February 8, 2010).
Document ID: cqal70-1294822
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal70-1294822
© 1971, 2010, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
