7/2/09 2:39 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 13http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1291814&type=hitlist&num=9
Banking
1998 Congress Clears Legislation
Allowing Credit Unions To Expand
Membership
1995 House Shelves Banking Overhaul
1994 Other Banking Legislation
Considered in 1994
1994 Community Development Banking
Provisions
1994 Banking Law Undergoes Revision
1991 Congress Clears Slimmed-Down
Banking Bill
1991 Banking Nominations
1988 Caught in Turf Battle, Bank
Powers Bill Dies
1986 Major Banking Legislation Stalls
in Last Hours
1985 Banking Bills Fail to Reach House
Floor
1979 Banking Deregulation
1978 Electronic Banking Services
1978 Banking Regulation
1976 Banking Changes Blocked
1975 Senate Approves Broader Banking
Powers
1974 Citicorp Notes
1974 Banking Insurance, Credit Bill
Cleared
1970 Regulation Extended to One-
Bank Holding Companies
1969 Bank Holding Companies
1967 Truth-In-Lending Bill Passed by
Senate
1966 Bank Supervision
1966 Bank Holding Company Act
Exemptions Changed
1965 Bank Investigation
1957 Banking Revision
1955 Bank Companies
Antitrust
Federal Reserve
Savings and Loan Industry
Stock Market and Financial Services
Regulation Extended to One-Bank Holding
Companies
An article from CQ Almanac 1970
Document Outline
Provisions
Background
1969 Action
Senate
Conference Report
Features
Congress Dec. 18 cleared for the President's signature a bill (HR 6778—PL
91 - 607 ) extending Federal regulation to holding companies controlling
a single bank.
President Nixon's signing of the bill Dec. 31 culminated a two-year legislative
effort in response to the rapid growth in the number of one-bank holding
companies which began in late 1967 and continued through 1968 into 1969.
Congress placed multibank holding companies under statutory restrictions and
under regulation by the Federal Reserve Board when it passed the Bank
Holding Company Act of 1956 (PL 84-511). It exempted one-bank holding
companies from the provisions of the Act, primarily to accommodate the 117
small companies controlling a single bank which were in operation in 1955.
These existed chiefly in small communities with limited market areas.
Larger banks wishing to diversify by entering fields prohibited to them by laws
regulating banks began to turn to the one-bank holding company exemption
of the 1956 Act during the mid-1960s. The trend, though opposed by the
Federal Reserve Board, which had regulatory authority over multibank
companies, accelerated in the later years of the decade.
Chairman Wright Patman (D Texas) of the House Banking and Currency
Committee, a longtime foe of banking interests, introduced HR 6778 on Feb.
17, 1969. President Nixon on March 24, 1969, offered a milder proposal than
Patman's. Sen. William Proxmire (D Wis.) introduced a bill similar to Patman's
in the Senate.
The House passed HR 6778 on Nov. 5, 1969. The Senate passed a less
severe version of the bill Sept. 16, 1970.
A House-Senate conference committee filed its report on the bill Dec. 15. As
Congress took final action on the bill, opinions differed on whether the
compromise between the House and Senate versions resulted in strong or
substantially weakened legislation.
Eisenhower Dollar. In addition to the one-bank holding company provisions, the conference committee included in
the final bill a nongermane Senate amendment authorizing minting of commemorative part-silver dollars bearing the
likeness of the late President Dwight D. Eisenhower. This amendment also authorized minting of nonsilver Eisenhower
dollar and Kennedy half-dollar coins for circulation and sale of the rare silver dollars remaining in Treasury
Department vaults. (1969 Almanac p. 919)
Provisions
As cleared by Congress, HR 6778:
Placed one-bank holding companies under regulation by the Federal Reserve Board.
 
7/2/09 2:39 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 13http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1291814&type=hitlist&num=9
Defined such companies as those controlling 25 percent or more of a bank or the election of a majority of its governing
body or those found formally by the Federal Reserve Board to have controlling influence over a bank.
Bank-Related Activities
Required the Federal Reserve Board to determine which activities were bank-related and permissible for bank holding
companies to engage in; authorized the board to make its determinations in specific cases or general rules.
Required the board in reaching a determination that an activity was bank-related to find that it was “so closely related to
banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto” (language similar to that of the 1956 Act).
Further required the board to determine that engaging in an activity would result in public benefits, such as greater
convenience, increased competition or gains in efficiency, which would outweigh possible adverse effects, such as
undue concentration, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest or unsound banking practices.
Grandfather Clause
Authorized a one-bank holding company to retain or continue nonbanking activities acquired or begun on or before June
30, 1968, and continuously engaged in since then, provided that the Federal Reserve Board determined that retention or
continuation of the activities would not result in undue concentration, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of
interest or unsound banking practices, and subject to such conditions as the board might impose to ensure avoidance of
those situations.
Required the board to deny exemption under the June 30, 1968, grandfather clause if it found the established standards
would not be met; authorized the board to terminate exemption at any time for failure to maintain the standards.
Required termination if a one-bank holding company established a new nonbanking activity or acquired a going concern
engaged in such an activity.
Required the board to determine within two years after enactment whether to grant exemption under the grandfather
clause for all companies with bank assets of $60 million or more.
Allowed 10 years for divestiture of nonbanking activities where exemption was not allowed.
Exemptions
Authorized the board to grant terminable exemption from the provisions of the Act in cases involving activities begun or
acquired on or before June 30, 1968, where it found the banking activities involved were so small in relation to the
market as to minimize the influence of their credit power or where it found that divestiture would result in forced sales or
disruption of long-standing business relationships.
Granted specific exemptions, in some cases requiring determination by the board, for labor, agricultural and horticultural
organizations; banks in which the same family had owned an 85-percent controlling interest since June 30, 1968;
mutual savings banks controlling another bank under specific authorization of state law; any bank not making
commercial loans; a bank operating solely in foreign commerce; any company doing most of its business outside the
United States, and any bank with restricted operations wholly owned by thrift institutions.
Terminated the 1956 Act's exemption for partnerships; extended regulation in cases of control through assets held in
trust or as security; maintained the 1956 Act's exemption of banks controlled by individuals.
Competition
Prohibited any condition that made providing credit, property or service contingent on obtaining from or providing to a
bank or its holding company any additional credit, property or service, except for transactions exclusively involving loans,
discounts, deposits or trust services.
Prohibited any condition that made providing credit, property or service contingent on agreement not to obtain other
credit, property or service from a competitor.
Granted legal standing to competitors and other interested parties in cases before the Federal Reserve Board and the
courts.
Coinage
Authorized minting of $150 million in 40-percent silver Eisenhower dollar coins for uncirculated commemoratives and
proof sets, minting of clad-copper (cupronickel) Kennedy half-dollars and Eisenhower dollars for circulation, transfer of
$3 million in rare (collector's item) silver dollars from the Treasury to the General Services Administration for public sale
and transfer of silver from Government stockpiles for the Eisenhower dollars, which would phase out the silver-sale
operations of the Treasury.
7/2/09 2:39 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 13http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1291814&type=hitlist&num=9
Background
References. Full report on background of the legislation, 1969 Almanac p. 941; amendments to Bank Holding
Company Act of 1956, Congress and the Nation Vol. II p. 259, 265; passage of the Bank Holding Company Act of
1956, Congress and the Nation Vol. I p. 448; Eisenhower silver dollar and other coinage provisions, 1969 Almanac
p. 919.
The main purpose of the 1956 Bank Holding Company Act was to limit bank holding companies to the ownership
and management of banks. The law defined bank holding companies and, except for those controlling only one
bank, required them to divest themselves of activities not closely related to banking.
Congress amended the law in 1966 by eliminating some of the exemptions which it had originally provided. The
House eliminated the exemption for one-bank holding companies, but the Senate restored it and the provision
remained in the law.
The 1966 amendments left exemptions intact for partnerships and individuals (as opposed to corporations).
Loopholes not dealt with included control of banks through ownership of less than 25 percent of the voting stock
(the criterion established by the 1956 Act), use of assets held in trust by one bank to gain control of another and
use of loans secured by bank stock as a means of gaining control over a bank.
Still the law restricted the expansion of many holding corporations into nonbanking fields. The purpose was to
prevent the unfair use of bank credit in competition. Without such a restriction, for example, a holding company.
through its banks, could deny credit to businesses competing with its subsidiaries, channel credit to customers of its
subsidiaries and deny it to those of competitors or require the customers of its banks, in exchange for credit, to deal
with its subsidiaries in preference to competitors. The latter was referred to as a “tie-in.”
In late 1967 a trend became apparent toward formation of or entry into one-bank holding companies by major
banks. As they decided to expand into or acquire activities not permitted to them as banks, many large banks
availed themselves of the exemption for one-bank holding companies to form new holding corporations while others
became part of existing conglomerate corporations.
Chairman Arthur F. Burns of the Federal Reserve Board testified that the surge in formation of and affiliation with
one-bank holding companies left 23 of the 51 banks in the nation with $1 billion or more in deposits as subsidiaries
of firms holding a single bank. Those included the six largest banks in the country, he said, with 20 percent of total
deposits of the banking system. The board estimated that there were 890 one-bank holding companies as of Dec.
31, 1969, with 43 percent of total U.S. deposits. In contrast, the 106 regulated multibank holding companies had
less than 13 percent of total deposits.
In 1970 the Federal Reserve Board staff estimated the total number of unregulated holding companies at 1,100.
Deposits in banks controlled by one-bank holding companies increased tenfold in the period 1965–1970, according
to the board.
1969 Action
Legislation to place the one-bank companies under regulation was promised by the Administration shortly after
President Nixon took office in January 1969. Patman introduced HR 6778 on Feb. 17. After missing several self-
imposed deadlines, the Administration sent its bill (HR 9385, S 1664) to Congress March 24.
Two primary issues developed on the legislation. The first, whether the one-bank holding companies should be
regulated, generally drew affirmative responses, though enactment of legislation was never assured. The second
was whether one-bank holding companies established under the exemption of the 1956 Act should be permitted to
retain their nonbanking activities, and, if so, what date should be established in the measure, after which
nonbanking activities acquired or begun would have to be discontinued or disposed of. Disagreement on this
question continued throughout the legislative life of the measure.
Patman's bill required divestiture of nonbanking assets no matter when acquired or begun. The Administration bill
established June 30, 1968, as its cutoff date by means of a grandfather clause exempting activities begun or
acquired on or before that date from its divestiture requirement.
Patman's bill gave regulatory authority to the Federal Reserve Board. The Administration bill empowered the
agencies which regulated the different types of banks involved—the Federal Reserve Board, Comptroller of the
Currency, and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC)—to regulate holding companies controlling those
banks. The agencies were unanimously to establish guidelines and regulations for determining acceptable acticities
and acquisitions.
HR 6778 as reported by the Banking and Currency Committee incorporated a grandfather clause (creating an
exemption based on previously existing circumstances) exempting activities begun or acquired before the date
Patman introduced the bill. Floor amendments changed the date to require holding companies formed since
enactment of the 1956 legislation to divest themselves of nonbanking activities and further required all but the
smaller companies to dispose of nonbanking activities acquired or begun before the 1956 enactment.
7/2/09 2:39 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 13http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1291814&type=hitlist&num=9
House Provisions. As passed by the House, HR 6778:
Extended the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 to single-bank holding companies, placing all such companies under
regulatory authority of the Federal Reserve Board.
Generally authorized the Federal Reserve Board to determine types of nonbanking business interests that bank holding
companies were permitted to acquire or engage in.
Specifically prohibited bank holding companies from engaging in certain businesses, including securities, insurance,
travel arrangements, accounting, data processing and equipment leasing.
Required that holding companies formed after May 9, 1956 (the effective date of the 1956 Act) divest themselves of their
nonbanking interests; required companies with current banking assets of more than $30 million and nonbanking assets
of more than $10 million to divest themselves of nonbanking acquisitions made before that date.
Authorized the Federal Reserve Board to permit activities by bank holding companies or their subsidiaries that were
“functionally related” to banking if the activities could be expected to “produce benefits to the public” (such as added
convenience or gains in efficiency) that outweighed their adverse effects (such as conflicts of interest or undue
concentration of economic power).
Defined a bank holding company as one which actually controlled a bank, replacing the 1956 Act's definition; extended
regulation to cover control through use of assets held in trust or as security; terminated partnership exemption.
Senate
Hearings
The Senate Banking and Currency Committee May 12, 1970, began hearings on HR 6778 and other bills to regulate
one-bank holding companies.
Announcement of the hearings, by Chairman John J. Sparkman (D Ala.) followed an offer of help from President
Nixon that was widely interpreted as an effort to kill the stringent House-passed bill and deter other legislation
during the 91st Congress.
In the 1970 Economic Report of the President, Mr. Nixon announced that he intended to appoint a Presidential
Commission on Financial Structure and Regulation. Soon after the announcement, on Feb. 4, Sparkman and
Wallace F. Bennett (R Utah), ranking minority member of the Committee, wrote a letter to the President stating that
the Commission's work would help the Committee in its consideration of one-bank holding company legislation.
Mr. Nixon replied April 21 that he had appointed Reed O. Hunt of San Francisco chairman of the Commission. He
expressed hope that “two or three months after it begins its work I can make available to your Committee an interim
report of the Commission” on the holding company question. The President announced Hunt's appointment the
following day.
This prompted Patman to write to Mr. Nixon April 27 protesting that the President's letter “appears to be a strong
suggestion that the Congress delay action until it is too late to enact legislation this year, thus killing the House-
passed holding company bill.”
“I hope sincerely,” Patman concluded, “that you will publicly re-urge prompt action on one-bank holding company
legislation in the 91st Congress and that you will instruct your aides in the Treasury Department and else-where in
the Administration to give full support, both publicly and privately, to your position.”
Treasury Secretary David M. Kennedy and Under Secretary Charles E. Walker, both of whom were closely associated
with banking, were expected to carry the Administration's case in the hearings. Both had expressed opposition to
certain provisions of the House bill. Kennedy was chairman of the board of the Continental Illinois National Bank
and Trust Co., Chicago, before his appointment; Walker was executive vice president of the American Bankers
Association (ABA).
During a planning session on the Commission's work, held at the Treasury Department April 28, Hunt announced
that no study of the one-bank holding company issue would be available until early in 1971.
The Senate Committee had before it the House-passed bill, the Administration bill (S 1664) and a bill by Proxmire
(S 1052) similar to Patman's original bill.
Testimony May 12
Charles E. Walker, Under Secretary of the Treasury: The legislation the President proposed would stop a trend
toward the merging of banking and commerce which began to develop two years ago and threatens to change the
nature of private enterprise. Union the trend is reversed, the economy could be dominated by huge conglomerate
centers of economic and financial power.
The purpose of S 1664 is to “draw a fair but firm line between banking and commerce.” In addition to extending
7/2/09 2:39 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 13http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1291814&type=hitlist&num=9
The purpose of S 1664 is to “draw a fair but firm line between banking and commerce.” In addition to extending
regulation to one-bank holding companies, the bill would substantially tighten the definition of bank holding
companies and would impose a public-interest test on their activities while simplifying administration of regulatory
procedures. It would allocate regulatory authority among the three Federal banking agencies rather than concentrate
it in the Federal Reserve Board, as the 1956 Act did. The Board would, however, retain exclusive jurisdiction over
bank acquisition by holding companies. Uniformity of standards would be guaranteed without a major change of
jurisdictional authority among bank regulatory agencies.
The “grandfather clause” under which holding companies could retain subsidiaries acquired up to mid-1968 would
not disrupt operations of the companies prevailing when the 1956 Act was passed. But it would force divestiture of
nonbanking subsidiaries by the “great majority” of new companies and would prevent further diversification by
conglomerates controlling a bank.
The 1956 divestiture date provided by HR 6778 is unnecessary and unfair. Further, it prohibits certain activities in
which banks are now allowed to engage and tends to foreclose constructive change in banking.
May 14
Arthur F. Burns, chairman, Federal Reserve Board:
The Board believes “it is entirely possible as well as desirable” to pass the legislation this year. By the end of 1969
there were 51 U.S. banks with deposits of $1 billion or more. Only nine were controlled by regulated holding
companies. 23 were controlled by one-bank holding companies, including the six largest in the nation, with more
than one out of every five dollars in deposits. It is discriminatory to regulate only the multi-bank companies, which
have fewer banks and a smaller share of deposits.
Divestiture poses problems, but the problems will get worse if legislation is delayed. Most one-bank companies
appear to be refraining from acquiring further unrelated businesses, but failure of Congress to act could be
interpreted as an intention to leave them unregulated, creating a harder job of unscrambling them in the future.
The Board believes the legislation would be most effective if a single agency were given responsibility for
administering it. The Federal Reserve “has the advantage” of experience gained from its responsibility for regulating
all the multi-bank companies under the 1956 Act. The Board agreed to dispersal of the authority among the three
agencies in 1969 if that was necessary to pass a bill, but that does not seem to be the case. The Board hopes that
Congress will pass a regulatory bill this year before “large banks make substantial acquisitions in unrelated fields
through their one-bank holding companies.” Action is needed now while a reasonable distinction between banking
and other business can be preserved.
May 15
William B. Camp, Comptroller of the Currency:
While the bills in question purport to relate only to one-bank holding companies, their proponents are “really
attempting to define and delineate the business of banking.” Partly due to the Comptroller's elimination of
unnecessary regulatory restrictions during the 1960s, banks expanded some of their services and offered new ones.
One-bank holding companies were formed to avoid lawsuits brought to challenge the broadening of bank services.
Most holding company subsidiaries were spun off from the banks themselves; there were far fewer acquisitions of
existing enterprises.
Neither a list of prohibited activities nor a list of permitted activities for banks would be realistic or healthy. Financial
institutions must be free to respond to financial needs as they occur. The preferred test of activities would be
whether they endanger liquidity or solvency of the bank in question or the banking system and whether they are
inconsistent with the public interest, giving due regard to competitive impact.
As long as Federal regulatory authority over banking remains divided among three agencies, those agencies should
be given authority to regulate holding companies controlling banks within their spheres. Federal Reserve Board
regulation of multi-bank holding companies has not posed problems. But in the case of one-bank companies, in
which the bank frequently has almost all of the assets involved, divided responsibility would pose problems.
Frank Wille, chairman, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC):
Because few acquisitions have actually been completed by recently formed one-bank companies, and most of those
have been bank-related, the legislation should be considered preventive rather than remedial. One-bank companies
should be brought promptly under regulation in order to prevent unhealthy concentration. But restrictions should be
imposed with caution, particularly those affecting banks' ability to compete fairly in offering bank-related services.
Banks and bank holding companies need flexibility to engage in new types of bank-related activities. The
prohibitions of HR 6778 run counter to that need for flexibility and also to state law specifically authorizing state-
chartered banks to engage in certain activities.
The FDIC has serious reservations about the administrative provisions of S 1664. “It might be extremely difficult to
achieve unanimity among the three agencies” on permissible activities. If guidelines were made general in order to
gloss over differences among the agencies, their application could vary widely. particularly in assessing competitive
impact of acquisitions. “This consideration alone might well lead the Committee to the conclusion that all regulatory
authority over nonbank acquisitions…should be in a single agency … regardless of existing and traditional
supervisory relationships.”
7/2/09 2:39 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 13http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1291814&type=hitlist&num=9
May 18
Richard W. McLaren, Assistant Attorney General, antitrust division:
Both forced and voluntary anticompetitive “tying” effects can result when a bank which wields substantial economic
power in its market area engages in nonbanking activities. Customers may be required to deal with subsidiaries or
they may believe they will receive better treatment from banks if they do.
Persons involved in regional and local markets are entitled to as much protection under antitrust laws as those
involved in national markets. But the Justice Department could never oppose all the anticompetitive acquisitions that
might occur in regional and local markets. Consequently the regulation of multi-bank holding companies should be
extended to single-bank companies. Bank expansion into other fields should be allowed only where it presents
advantages to the public and when proper safeguards are present.
While the Justice Department does not oppose the three-agency regulatory approach of S 1664, regulation by the
Federal Reserve Board alone would be superior. “Single agency administration is clearly simpler…. The Federal
Reserve Board… is well qualified to make such decisions…. Consistency and predictability in agency administration
is desirable … a single agency is likely to lead to greater consistency and predictability.”
Harry P. Guenther, executive vice president, National Association of Supervisors of State Banks, Washington, D.C.:
Current debate on the legislation centers on definition of banking. The Committee should define the proper scope of
the legislation. Specifically, it should make clear that the legislation is not meant “to define the powers of banks as
opposed to one-bank holding companies.” Such a clarification would reaffirm that definition of the essential powers
of banking is a prerogative of the states. This is necessary because banks must be diverse in order to respond to
the diverse needs of their markets. Federal pre-emption of state authority over banks would “begin a process which
will inevitably destroy the dual banking system” of state and Federally chartered banks. Specifically, HR 6778 would
override state law in many respects.
One-bank holding company legislation should recognize the evolutionary and competitive nature of banking,
authorize the same activities for all bank holding companies, and require a single agency to administer any changes
in existing law.
Robert P. Briggs, Commissioner of the Financial Institutions Bureau of Michigan, Lansing, Mich.:
Existing law should be amended to extend regulation of bank holding companies to cover limited partnerships which
can constitute de facto multi-bank holding companies. Three banking groups in Michigan control a total of 18 banks
through limited partnership organizations. The banks have $2.5 billion in deposits, 10.7 percent of total banking
assets in Michigan.
May 19
J. Kevin Murphy, representing the Association of Commercial Paper Carriers (previous lobby registration as
general counsel, Armored Carriers Corporation, 1961 Almanac p. 971). said motor-carrier subsidiaries of one-bank
holding companies should be kept from driving other commercial carriers—including bank couriers—out of business:
At least one member of the Association is preparing an antitrust suit which will be filed shortly. This does not seem
a “fair and proper remedy, particularly when the financial strength and size of combatants is like a mosquito and an
elephant.”
One-bank holding companies should not be allowed to extend their business activities into all of the areas which the
Treasury, Comptroller of the Currency and the American Bankers Association say they should.
Thomas M. Keesling, vice president of the American Society of Travel Agents (organizational lobby registration, 1968
Almanac p. 899), said banks should confine themselves to bank functions, which, he said, did not include operating
travel agencies:
More than 25 percent of the nation's 45 largest commercial banks own and operate travel agencies. Some of these
banks have unfairly enticed commercial travel accounts away from travel agencies through offers they were able to
make due to their advantageous financial position. Other banks have restricted or complicated credit arrangements
for travel made through agencies other than their own.
Vincent D. Bytner, an Albany, N.Y., travel agent, said consideration of the legislation should be delayed until the next
session of Congress so that a Nixon-appointed commission studying financial institutions could report back:
Even though I may be mildly against banks as competitors in the travel business, the House-passed bill is too far-
reaching and restrictive.
May 20
Bernard Goldstein, vice president and director, Association of Data Processing Service Organizations (ADAPSO),
(organizational lobby registration, 1969 Almanac p. 1126):
The role of the unregulated one-bank holding company has grown “as more bankers begin to appreciate the
7/2/09 2:39 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 13http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1291814&type=hitlist&num=9
The role of the unregulated one-bank holding company has grown “as more bankers begin to appreciate the
attractiveness as a legislatively sanctioned device to evade banking laws or at least as insulation against court
attacks.”
Arguments by banks that they must sell the service of excess data processing capacity in order to make their
purchases of the equipment economically feasible and that they have a special competence in payroll preparation
are invalid. Banks regard data processing service as an independent and profitable enterprise, often performed with
separate equipment, and they frequently use payroll service as a “loss-leader” to gain banking business. The
banking industry's need for innovation can be met within the limits of banking services.
Data processors have met with little justice in dealing with bank regulatory agencies, which are staffed by banking
people. The legislation should grant businesses potentially affected by bank entry into nonbanking activities the right
to sue in the courts. It should contain specific prohibitions against bank entry into nonbanking activities. It should not
reward holding companies that have already moved into nonbanking business.
Lee E. Walton, Jackson, Mich., president, National Association of Insurance Agents:
Subsidiaries of one-bank holding companies are “in a unique position to insist or ‘strongly suggest’ that if the
borrower wants continued access to bank credit, he should also use the services of the holding companies’
subsidiaries.” This type of coercion is being used in the insurance field as well as in other areas. The banking
industry itself “is divided within its own ranks over this issue.”
Morton V. V. White, Allentown, Pa., speaking for the National Association of Insurance Agents:
We have heard from bankers and others that antitrust laws are adequate to meet the threat of coercion in selling
insurance. But they are not an adequate answer. Not the least reason is that it would take years of action in the
courts to reach a solution.
Denial to banks of the right to sell insurance will in no way jeopardize the future of the banking industry. “Allowing
them to do so will spell the beginning to the end for us.” Sale of insurance by banks should be confined to credit
life, accident and health protection; we concede that “instant availability” of those types of insurance benefits the
borrower. There is no other situation where that is essential. The public is not well served by having bankers
engage in the insurance business.
May 21
John R. Toops, Englewood, Colo., speaking for the National Society of Public Accountants:
More and more banks are offering accounting to clients as a business service. This should be prohibited, on two
grounds: first, banks have neither the independence nor the professional qualifications to perform discretionary
accounting services, and second, they are in the unique position of being able to tie in the lending of money with
the offering of accounting service.
Stuart G. Tipton, president, Air Transport Association of America (organizational lobby registration, 1969 Almanac p.
1113):
The provision of HR 6778 to prohibit bank operation of property-leasing businesses should not be enacted. It would
seriously affect the airlines' ability to finance the acquisition of needed aircraft and other capital equipment. It would
narrow the field of competition available to airlines for equipment leasing.
May 22
Maxwell Brandwen, president, The Amalgamated Bank of New York, which is controlled by the Amalgamated
Clothing Workers of America:
The provision of HR 6778 which would repeal the exemption of labor unions from the prohibition of the Act against a
bank holding company's engaging in other businesses should not be enacted. The Amalgamated Bank pioneered
low-cost consumer credit for low-income people. For its business philosophy “it is indebted in substantial measure to
the Amalgamated Clothing Workers Union and its long traditions.” No legislation should be enacted which would
impair the bank's ability to carry on its business under the policies it has established.
May 25
Nat S. Rogers, president, American Bankers Association (see organizational lobby registration):
The American Bankers Association agrees that one-bank holding companies should be subject to the same
regulation as multibank holding companies. But it opposes HR 6778. “In the guise of attempting to define the
business of holding companies, HR 6778 seeks to circumscribe the business of banking itself, in such a fashion as
to constitute…a destructive measure.
“It is bill shaped by those who apparently do not understand the nature of the banking business, abetted by those
who seek to reduce or eliminate competition for their own advantage, and enacted in an atmosphere of turmoil and
haste…. There is no mistaking the intent of the authors of HR 6778. The extension of Federal regulation to one-
bank holding companies serves merely as a convenient device to accomplish the objective of placing restrictions on
the banking business which would prevent the industry from maintaining its position in the financial world, both
7/2/09 2:39 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 13http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1291814&type=hitlist&num=9
the banking business which would prevent the industry from maintaining its position in the financial world, both
domestically and internationally.”
Russell Fenwick, vice president of the Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association for systems and
equipment research (organizational lobby registration, 1969 Almanac p. 1115), also representing the American
Bankers Association:
Banks have a record of leadership in data processing. Innovative in offering needed services at reasonable prices,
they have “met the test of the marketplace.” Their success has moved their competition to seek protective
legislation.
May 26
Louis Harris, president, Louis Harris and Associates Inc., reported on two studies conducted for the Foundation for
Full Service Banks, one a national cross-section of 3,000 households and the other a cross-section of 908 leaders:
The affluent public—the growing minority which has discretionary income—wants financial institutions to provide a
full range of advice and service on finances and investments. They would prefer not to have to “shop around” for it.
More than one-third of the public would like to be able to obtain all financial services under one roof, and 54 percent
said “they would be willing to pay a fee to a bank for help in handling their total financial needs.”
Both studies revealed strong majorities in favor of greater participation and leadership by bankers in attacking
community problems. Yet only 40 percent of the leaders believed bankers were effective in building up the local
economy, and still fewer found bankers effective in other areas. The public found bankers “scarcely better” in their
community contributions.
Walter B. Wriston, chairman, First National City Corporation, New York, and its subsidiary, First National City Bank
(organizational lobby registration, 1968 Almanac p. 902):
The danger of bank holding companies has been greatly exaggerated. Rather than build walls around what presently
exists, Congress should throw off some of the shackles on banking which inhibit competition in financial markets.
“The time has come to take a comprehensive national look at all our financial institutions….” There is ample time for
such a study before attempting additional legislation.
A. W. Clausen, president and chief executive officer, Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association and
of BankAmerica Corporation, the bank's holding company:
Simultaneous worldwide demand for changed and expanded financial services and institutions is arising. Competition
assures that those demands will be met somehow. Only flexible U.S. banking regulations will enable the United
States to compete effectively. Narrow, inflexible regulations will deprive U.S. banks of access to markets and
services. If a vacuum is created, other—nonregulated—institutions will fill it, and the Congressional objective of
control will not be attained.
David Rockefeller, chairman of the board, Chase Manhattan Bank, New York, and its holding company, the Chase
Manhattan Corporation (see organizational lobby registration):
The choice of the pattern for regulation of one-bank holding companies should await at least an interim report of the
President's Commission on Financial Structure and Regulation. When the Commission on finished its study, it will
find that technological advances and the growing complexity of the economy have evoked responses from all types
of financial institutions and that one-bank holding companies are only one kind of response. They will contribute
significantly to solution of current and future economic problems.
May 27
Robert H. Volk, president, Unionamerica Inc., Los Angeles (organizational lobby registration, 1969 Almanac p. 1157):
Present laws are adequate to cope with the abuses which one-bank holding companies allegedly threaten.
“Furthermore, there is no evidence that any such abuses have occurred.” Existing antitrust laws should be tested as
to their adequacy in dealing with such problems as may exist before Congress adopts regulatory legislation “which
could effectively sterilize a healthy development in the American economy.”
Peter A. Cooper, vice president for corporate services, Sperry and Hutchinson (S & H) Company (organizational
lobby registration, 1967 Almanac p. 1198):
Congressional concern over one-bank holding companies stems from the bank-originated holding companies—not
the traditional one-bank holding companies which were excluded from regulation under the 1956 Act. But the
legislation under consideration would injure the traditional companies far more than it would the newer bank-
originated companies. The traditional companies “have not been part of the problem and accordingly should not be
part of the solution.”
William G. Kirchner, president, Richfield Bank and Trust Company, Richfield, Minn.:
The one-bank holding company device is often necessary in order for younger persons to buy a controlling interest
in a small bank. If ownership cannot be kept in a small group which is dedicated to development of such a bank
and the community where it is located, ownership may pass to speculators when those holding the controlling
7/2/09 2:39 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 9 of 13http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1291814&type=hitlist&num=9
and the community where it is located, ownership may pass to speculators when those holding the controlling
interest want to retire and liquidate. Such a development would often be to the disadvantage of both the bank and
the community.
May 28
Rod L. Parsch, Lapeer, Mich., president, Independent Bankers Association of America:
Creating huge systems does not create any more loanable funds for commercial credit but merely shifts control of
financial resources to fewer hands. It adds nothing to gross national product; it merely “helps the big get bigger.”
The American system depends on preservation of competition as “the great regulator.” Dispersion of economic
power has served America well. Whatever useful purpose is claimed for large multibank holding companies is
heavily outweighed by adverse effects upon the economy and the public interest…. We urge that your Committee
not only eliminate large one bank conglomerates but also strengthen controls in the Act as to multibank companies.”
Alger B. Chapman Jr., vice president for government relations, Investment Bankers Association of America
(organizational lobby registration, 1969 Almanac p. 1117):
One-bank holding companies should be subjected to the same regulation applying to multibank companies. The
primary concern is to insure that existing prohibitions against engaging in the securities business remain effective
against banks and their subsidiaries. Additional holdings of common stock by affiliates in a bank holding company
“could lead swiftly to the creation of giant conglomerates centered around large banking institutions.” It is in the
public interest that the exemption from regulation be eliminated for one-bank holding companies and that banks be
prohibited from engaging in nonbanking activities.
Committee Report
The Senate Banking and Currency Committee Aug. 10 reported HR 6778 (S Rept 91 -1084). As reported. the
bill:
Placed one-bank holding companies under regulation by the Federal Reserve Board.
Defined such a company as one controlling 25 percent or more of a bank or the election of a majority of its governing
body or one found formally by the Federal Reserve Board to have controlling influence over a bank.
Authorized retention of and continuation of activities acquired or begun on or before March 24, 1969, effectively
exempting from divestiture the activities begun and acquired during the major growth period of one-bank holding
companies.
Required divestiture of nonbanking activities acquired or begun after that date except under a binding contract entered
by that date.
Allowed five years for divestiture plus an additional period of five years on approval by the Federal Reserve Board.
Prohibited permanent acquisition of a “going concern” engaged in nonbanking activity by a regulated company but
permitted companies to enlarge their holdings and activities as they saw fit during the divestiture period in order to
improve their position in divestiture, with limited restraining authority for the Federal Reserve Board to maintain the
general intent of the bill.
Exempted companies where the bank's net worth was $3 million or less (which usually meant deposits of $30 million or
less).
Exempted diversified (conglomerate) companies if the subsidiary bank's net worth was less than $50 million and less
than 25 percent of the corporation's total assets, with limited authority for the Federal Reserve Board to terminate or
modify the exemption.
Granted further exemptions for family-held companies and for certain trust companies organized under Missouri state
law.
Extended regulation to cover partnerships controlling a bank and exercise of control through use of assets held in trust
or as security.
Granted the Federal Reserve Board flexible authority to determine permissible activities and acquisitions.
Established a “public benefit” requirement for permissible nonbanking activities.
Prohibited any condition that made granting of credit contingent on a customer's use of other services provided by a
bank or its holding company or on agreement not to use services provided by others (third parties).
Authorized minting of $150 million in 40-percent silver Eisenhower dollar coins, minting of cupronickel Kennedy half-
dollars and Eisenhower dollars, transfer of $3 million in rare (collector's item) silver dollars from the Treasury to the
General Services Administration for sale and transfer of silver from Government stockpiles for the Eisenhower dollars,
7/2/09 2:39 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 10 of 13http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1291814&type=hitlist&num=9
General Services Administration for sale and transfer of silver from Government stockpiles for the Eisenhower dollars,
which would phase the Treasury out of its silver sales operations.
Supplementary Views. Senators William Proxmire (D Wis.) and Charles E. Goodell (R N.Y.) charged that the
exemption for conglomerate companies destroyed the balance of the bill by exempting more than 900 of the 1,100
companies the Administration had set out to regulate. They said further that the provision as reported gave the
remaining one-bank companies strong incentive to adjust their holdings and operations in order to escape
regulation.
Senators Wallace F. Bennett (R Utah), John G. Tower (R Texas), Charles H. Percy (R Ill.) and Robert W. Packwood (R
Ore.) objected to the provision against tying credit to other service, on grounds it was so broad it would interfere
with routine banking operations. Sen. Edward W. Brooke (R Mass.), in a separate view, disputed their interpretation of
the provision.
Floor Action
The Senate Sept. 16 by a 77-1 roll-call vote passed HR 6778 Three amendments were accepted and two rejected.
The bill then went to conference with the House. (Vote 280, p. 50-S)
DEBATE. William Proxmire (D Wis.), who cast the only vote against the bill on passage, offered an amendment,
adopted by a 42-31 roll-call vote, to change the date of the bill's “grandfather clause.” The provision permitted
holding companies to retain and continue activities begun or acquired on or before that date but required divestiture
of nonbanking activities begun or acquired after that date.
To implement repeal of the 1956 exemption for one-bank holding companies, the bill gave the Federal Reserve
Board flexible authority to determine which activities were so closely related to banking or of such public benefit that
bank holding companies should be permitted to continue them. It required divestiture of unapproved activities
acquired or begun after March 24, 1969, the date of the Administration's proposal.
Proxmire said many one-bank holding companies had been formed in the hope of avoiding regulation after the
expectation became widespread in financial circles that Congress would repeal the 1956 exemption. His amendment
to change the date of the grandfather clause to June 30, 1968, was accepted on a 42-31 roll-call vote. (Vote 277,
p. 50-S)
The Committee, in a provision submitted by Harrison A. Williams Jr. (D N.J.), had maintained the exemption from
regulation for two broad groups of one-bank holding companies. These were:
Holding companies in which the net worth of the bank did not exceed $3 million.
Conglomerate holding companies in which the net worth of the bank did not exceed 25 percent of the total net worth of
the company and its subsidiaries or $50 million, whichever was less.
Proxmire offered an amendment to delete those exemptions from the bill. He argued that they would exempt 82
percent of one-bank holding companies, including 60 conglomerates and 870 companies with smaller banks.
Further, he said, small independent banks could form holding companies and remain exempt and conglomerates, by
adjusting their holdings, could keep within the limits of the exemption. A bank with a net worth of $50 million, he
added, would have deposits of approximately $500 million.
Williams challenged Proxmire's figures and said his provision was necessary to avoid hardship to small banks and
disadvantages to conglomerate companies. He said no evidence had been offered showing that conglomerates had
abused their relationships with their banks. Proxmire's amendment was rejected by a 34–37 roll call. A third
Proxmire amendment, to apply the June 30, 1968, grandfather clause date to companies exempted by the Williams
provision and require divestiture of activities acquired after that date, was rejected on a 30-45 roll call. (Votes 276,
279, p. 50-S)
The Senate also accepted, on a 62–14 roll-call vote, an amendment by Wallace F. Bennett (R Utah) to exempt what
were described as traditional banking practices in connection with loans, deposits, discounts and trust services from
the bill's prohibition against tying—making credit contingent on use of other services. Bennett said the antitying
provision had been aimed against tying credit to services provided through other activities of a holding company and
had never been intended to apply to activities within a bank. Edward W. Brooke (R Mass.) said the Bennett provision
would permit “flagrant abuses” and that the Administration had changed its position on the amendment “under heavy
bank lobbying.” (Vote 278, p. 50-S)
John O. Pastore offered an amendment, accepted by voice vote, to extend to mutual savings banks organized under
Rhode Island law an exemption from regulation contained in the bill. The Committee Report said the exemption was
necessary to meet a unique situation involving trust companies organized under Missouri law. The Missouri statute
permitted certain trust companies to own a bank but limited their nonbanking activities. Pastore said he had been
informed that the Rhode Island mutual savings banks' situation was identical to that of the Missouri trust companies.
“If there is any difference between the two and it is discovered in conference,” he said, “it can be hassled out in
conference.”
The bill then was passed by a 77-1 roll-call vote. (Vote 280, p. 50-S)
7/2/09 2:39 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 11 of 13http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1291814&type=hitlist&num=9
Provisions. As passed by the Senate, HR 6778 changed the following provisions from the Committee's
recommendations:
Authorized retention of and continuation of activities acquired or begun on or before June 30, 1968 (instead of March
24, 1969).
Extended an exemption for certain trust companies organized under Missouri state law and mutual savings banks
organized under Rhode Island state law.
Prohibited any conditions that made granting of credit contingent on a customer's use of other services provided by a
bank or its holding company or by agreement not to use services provided by others (third parties) but specifically
exempted from the prohibition transactions involving exclusively loans, deposits, discounts and trust services.
Amendments Accepted
Sept. 16—Proxmire (D Wis.)—Change grandfather clause date to June 30, 1968, from March 24, 1969. Roll-call
vote, 42–31.
Pastore (D R.I.)—Extend exemption provided for Missouri trust companies to Rhode Island mutual savings banks.
Voice vote.
Bennett (R Utah)—Exempt bank services in connection with loans, deposits, discounts and trust services from
prohibition against tying credit to use or nonuse of other services. Roll call, 62–14.
Amendments Rejected
Sept. 16—Proxmire—Delete exemption for small banks and conglomerate holding companies. Roll call, 34-37.
Proxmire—Apply June 30, 1968, grandfather clause to small banks and conglomerates. Roll call, 30–45.
Conference Report
The conference committee reported Dec. 15 on the bill (H Rept 91-1747). Major differences between the House
and Senate versions were resolved in conference as follows:
Bank-Related Activities. The House bill required activities of a one-bank holding company to be functionally related
to banking, with public benefits outweighing adverse effects. It specifically forbade or strictly limited a number of
activities.
The Senate bill was less stringent, since it accepted the House “functionally related” language and public benefits
test but did not list prohibited or limited activities. The conference bill adopted language almost identical to that of
the 1956 Act to define permissible activities. It incorporated the public benefit test, which was not in the 1956 Act.
Exemptions. The Senate bill exempted from regulation two large groups of holding companies: those in which the
bank's net worth was $3 million or less and those in which the bank's net worth was $50 million or less and was
less than 25 percent of the net worth of the entire company. The former was for the stated purpose of exempting
small banks held by small holding companies, for which the one-bank exemption had been created in the 1956 Act.
The latter was for modern conglomerate corporations controlling a bank.
The conference version authorized the Federal Reserve Board to grant exemptions, which could later be terminated,
for holding companies in operation before July 1, 1968, if the board found that their activities were not in conflict
with the purposes of the Act and if exemption was necessary to avoid forced sales or disruption of long-standing
business relationships or if the banking activities were so small in relation to the market as to minimize the influence
of the bank's credit power.
Grandfather Clause. The House bill required divestiture of nonbanking activities acquired or begun since the date
of the 1956 Act. The Senate bill authorized retention and continuation of activities begun or acquired on or before
June 30, 1968.
The conference version kept the Senate's date. But it greatly reduced the effect of the grandfather clause by
requiring the Federal Reserve Board to determine whether nonbanking activities entered into or acquired before the
date met standards similar to those prescribed for nonbanking activities begun or acquired after that date. The bill
required termination if the standards were not met initially, authorized termination at any time later if the standards
were not maintained, and empowered the board to impose conditions under which exemption could be granted. It
required the board to make its determination within two years for banks with assets of more than $60 million.
Tie-In Provision. The House bill sought to prevent tying of banking services to other services of a holding company,
such as making credit conditional on doing business with another activity or subsidiary of the holding company. The
Senate amended this by exempting transactions exclusively involving loans, deposits, discounts and trust services,
which were considered traditional bank services. The conference bill adopted the Senate provision.
Legal Standing. The Senate bill, but not the House bill, granted legal standing to competitors and other interested
parties to enter cases before the Federal Reserve Board or the courts involving one-bank holding companies. The
7/2/09 2:39 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 12 of 13http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1291814&type=hitlist&num=9
parties to enter cases before the Federal Reserve Board or the courts involving one-bank holding companies. The
provision put into law the current practice of the board. It was retained in the conference bill.
Coinage. The Senate bill included a nongermane provision (rider) combining provisions of Senate and House
legislation on coinage (HR 14127 and S J Res 158), which had been in impasse since late 1969. The principal
issue was minting of part-silver Eisenhower dollars, which the Senate had provided for and the House had not. The
conference accepted the Senate provision.
Final Action
House. Patman, explaining the conference report to the House Dec. 16, said “the version of the bill that is now
being presented…is substantially similar to the bill originally introduced by me in February of 1969.” The customary
statement by House conferees reflected Patman's view.
But the three Republican conferees, William B. Widnall (N.J.). J. William Stanton (Ohio) and Albert W. Johnson Wa.)
refused to sign the statement, although they signed the conference report. The four Democratic House conferees
signed the statement.
Widnall said the conference bill “very closely tracks the Senate bill—so much so in fact that any resemblance of the
House bill to the conference report is almost coincidental.” The Democratic conferees. he said, after they “had
thrown in the towel” on the list of prohibited and restricted activities in the House bill, were forced to accept more
flexible language defining nonbanking activities.
Garry E. Brown (R Mich.) noted during the debate that the House bill prohibited bank entry into the insurance, travel
agency, accounting and leasing businesses.
“In addition,” he asked, “is it not true the bill also included a grandfather's clause, dating back to March of 1956? In
other words, Mr. Chairman (Patman), is it not true the conferees have emasculated this bill?”
Pat man argued that the conference bill was as restrictive as the House bill.
The House adopted the conference report Dec. 16 by a 366-4 roll-call vote. (Vote 238, p. 82-H)
Senate. Sen. John J. Sparkman (D Ala.) said the conference bill “conforms in all major respects to the objectives and
even the language of the Senate-passed bill.” Wallace F. Bennett (R Utah), ranking minority conferee for the Senate,
said there was no significant difference between the Senate bill's language on nonbanking activities and the slightly
amended language of the 1956 Act used in the conference bill.
Proxmire, who cast the sole negative vote in the 77-1 roll call by which the Senate passed the bill Sept. 16, and
whose principal objection was to the exemptions granted to conglomerates and holding companies with smaller
banks, signed the conference report. He said “the bill recommended by the joint House-Senate conference
committee is a fair compromise and represents an effective approach to regulating one-bank holding companies.”
The Senate adopted the conference report Dec. 18 by voice vote, clearing HR 6778 for the President's signature.
Features
Lobbying of Conferees
After Senate passage but before the House-Senate conference committee met on the bill, the American Bankers
Association sent a request to a selected list of its members in the states and districts of conference committee
members asking them to contact the conferees and urge acceptance of several provisions of the Senate version of
S 6778, which were more lenient than those of the House version.
The ABA favored legislation to regulate one-bank holding companies but opposed such stringent provisions of the
House bill as the 1956 divestiture date and the list of specific nonbanking activities prohibited to banks and their
holding companies. A Nov. 6 communication labeled “Action Letter” over the signature of Willis W. Alexander,
executive vice president, urged the ABA members to press for acceptance of the Senate nonbanking provisions and
grandfather clause date. The letter also recommended acceptance of the provisions against tie-ins as amended on
the Senate floor. The ABA did not support the Senate amendment on conglomerates, according to the letter, and no
position was advocated on it.
Some three weeks after the conference committee began its work on Dec. 7, four Democratic conferees, Patman,
William A. Barrett (Pa.), Leonor K. Sullivan (Mo.) and Henry S. Reuss (Wis.), issued a statement saying the conference
was being “pushed towards wholesale exemptions for a number of holding company giants.” The statement objected
to exemption of large holding companies through the grandfather clause and provisions (such as the Senate
amendment) exempting conglomerates. The four Democrats said they would accept a Jan. 1, 1965, grandfather
clause or a later date if exemption was limited to small companies. They attached a list of one-bank holding
companies formed after Jan. 1, 1965, which would be exempted by a June 30, 1968, grand-father clause.
Document Citation
"Regulation Extended to One-Bank Holding Companies." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal70-
7/2/09 2:39 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 13 of 13http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1291814&type=hitlist&num=9
1291814. Originally published in CQ Almanac 1970 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1971).
http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal70-1291814 (accessed July 2, 2009).
Document ID: cqal70-1291814
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal70-1291814
© 1971, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
