7/2/09 2:11 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 16http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1293146&type=hitlist&num=2
Mortgages
2007 Tightening Reins on Mortgage
Lenders
2007 Debate Over Fannie, Freddie
Shifts
2007 Bills Aim to Ease Mortgage
Crunch
2005 Attempts to Rein In Mortgage
Giants Stall
1997 Mortgage Insurance Bill Advances
1994 Second Supplemental Keeps
Mortgage Programs Alive
1993 FHA Foreclosure Bill Awaits Final
Action
1990 Mortgage ‘Prepayment’
Compromise
1990 Federal Housing Administration
(FHA) Insurance Program Shored
Up
1989 Congress Raises Ceiling for
Federal Housing Administration
(FHA) Mortgage Loans
1983 Mortgage Revenue Bonds
1983 Mortgage Aid Fails
1980 Housing Authorization
1979 Tax-Exempt Mortgage Bonds
1975 Congress Clears ‘Redlining’
Legislation
1975 Congress Blocks Variable
Mortgage Rate Plan
1974 Congress Votes Emergency
Mortgage Aid
1972 Mortgage Settlement Costs
1970 Congress Clears Emergency Home
Finance Act Of 1970
1967 Home Ownership Bills not
Enacted in 1967
1966 Funds Provided FNMA to Help
Housing Industry
1966 “Participations” Approved as
Borrowing Device
1960 Emergency Housing Bill
1957 Congress Expands Housing
Programs
1954 Omnibus Housing Act Of 1954
1953 Housing Amendments
Banking
Housing Appropriations
Savings and Loan Industry
Congress Clears  Emergency Home Finance
Act Of 1970
An article from CQ Almanac 1970
Document Outline
Background
Senate Committee Action
Senate Floor Action
House Committee Action
House Floor Action
Conference Report
President Nixon July 24 signed into law a bill (S 3685—PL 91-351), the
Emergency Home Finance Act of 1970, to provide additional funds for the
home mortgage market.
Congress  cleared the bill July 20, when the House adopted the
conference report on S 3685 (H Rept 91-1311) by voice vote. The Senate
had adopted the report by voice vote July 17.
PROVISIONS. As cleared for the President, S 3685:
Authorized appropriations of $250 million for the Federal Home Loan Bank
Board to reduce the interest rates charged by Federal home loan banks on
short-term and long-term loans to member associations.
Provided that no more than 20 percent of the $250 million appropriated to the
Federal Home Loan Bank Board be disbursed in any one Federal home loan
bank district.
Expanded the purchase authority of the Federal National Mortgage
Association (FNMA) to include conventional mortgages in addition to the
Federally underwritten mortgages it had been purchasing and selling.
Authorized the establishment of a secondary mortgage market facility, called
the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, under the direction of the
Federal Home Loan Bank Board, with initial maximum capital stock of $100
million, subscribed to by member banks of the Federal home loan bank
system.
Authorized the Corporation to purchase residential mortgages from members
of Federal home loan banks and financial institutions insured by an agency of
the U.S. Government.
Prohibited the purchase of a conventional mortgage by FNMA or of a
residential mortgage by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation if the
outstanding principal balance of the mortgage at the time of purchase
exceeded 75 percent of the value of the property, unless the seller agreed to
retain a participation of at least 10 percent or to repurchase the mortgage
within a stipulated time, or if the excess above 75 percent was privately
insured.
Provided for an increase of $750 million in special assistance authority for the
Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) and reallocated an
additional $750 million to GNMA to increase its purchase of mortgages underwritten by the Federal Government for
lowcost housing.
Permitted GNMA to purchase Federal Housing Administration (FHA) low-income housing mortgages in excess of the
existing $22,000 per unit statutory limit where such mortgages had the benefit of a local abatement program.
 
7/2/09 2:11 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 16http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1293146&type=hitlist&num=2
Authorized a new interest subsidy program for single-family housing for middle-income families under which the
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) would subsidize interest rates to achieve an effective borrowing
rate as low as 7 percent per year.
Provided that the housing units assisted under the program have an appraised value of not more than $20,000 (or up to
$30,000 in high-cost areas) and eligible families have an income no higher than the median for the area in which the
property was located.
Authorized $105 million annually for the program for a three-year period, with no more than 25 percent of the funds
under the program available to subsidize interest payments on existing housing.
Extended from Oct. 1, 1970, to January 1, 1972, the authority of the HUD Secretary to set maximum interest rates on
FHA-VA (Veterans Administration) mortgages as necessary to meet mortgage market conditions.
Directed the HUD Secretary and the VA administrator to prescribe standards governing the amounts of settlement costs
allowable in any area in connection with the financing of FHA- and VA-assisted housing.
Raised the statutory lending limit for savings and loan associations from $40,000 to $45,000 per single-family dwelling.
Authorized an additional $2.1 million in contract authority in fiscal 1971 for college housing
Background
References. House and Senate hearings on high interest rates, 1969 Almanac p. 914; story on 1970 housing
legislation (S 3639).
On Dec. 30, 1969, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) George Romney announced that interest
rates on Federal Housing Administration (FHA) loans would be raised from 71/2 percent to 8 1/2 percent.
The action brought immediate criticism from some Members of Congress . In the Senate, Albert Gore (D Tenn.)
called the increase “another nail in the coffin of homebuilding.” And Wright Patman (D Texas), chairman of the House
Banking and Currency Committee, announced that he would hold hearings in February to examine the effects of
inflation and rising interest rates on the housing industry.
President Nixon Jan. 21 promised to take every possible step to solve the housing problem “consistent with the
overriding need to contain inflation.” He outlined no specific programs, but his presentation of a balanced budget two
weeks later was expected to encourage the Federal Reserve Board to relax monetary policy.
In a slight easing of the anti-inflation fiscal policy he had established at the outset of his Administration, the
President had lifted the five-month ban on Federally assisted state and local construction March 17. The ban had
been imposed Sept. 4, 1969, as part of a $3.5-billion cut in spending to offset rising uncontrollable expenditures and
Congressional action which did not conform to Mr. Nixon's budget recommendations.
In a further move relaxing economic restraints, Chairman Arthur F. Burns of the Federal Reserve Board hinted March
18 to the Senate Banking and Currency Committee that the Board had relaxed its longstanding tight money policy.
The President's March 17 announcement was included in a long statement listing his Administration's efforts on
behalf of the depressed housing industry. He urged Congressional enactment of measures including S 3685 to
increase available financing for housing construction. (Presidential text, p. 98-A)
Removal of the Federal aid ban was not expected to have much effect in the remainder of 1970. But it was
expected to increase estimated expenditures for fiscal 1971 by more than $600 million—almost half the $1.3-billion
surplus initially projected by the Administration in its fiscal 1971 Budget. Much of the increase was to be in highway
funds. (See summary on nation's economy.)
Despite a record-setting 165,000 starts in Government-subsidized low- and moderate-income homes in 1969, the
nation in early 1970 already was 2.5 million units behind projected housing requirements, and the National
Association of Home Builders had forecast further production drops during the year.
Former President Johnson in 1968 set a construction goal of 26 million dwellings in 10 years, 6 million of which
were to be for lower-income families.
The housing industry, caught in a squeeze by Federal Reserve Board attempts to discourage borrowing in order to
control the economy and rising interest rates, was losing ground in the campaign to provide decent housing for all
American families in a decade.
Administration- Congress  Dispute. President Nixon June 12 became embroiled with Congress  in a
controversy over housing legislation when he criticized legislators for failure to pass the Emergency Home Financing
Act (S 3685–HR 17495). He claimed that the bill had been sent to Congress  by the Administration Feb. 2. At
the time the President spoke, S 3685 had already been passed by the Senate April 16 and the House version (HR
17495) had been reported May 28 by the Banking and Currency Committee.
7/2/09 2:11 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 16http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1293146&type=hitlist&num=2
The President said June 12 that “four months have passed and the Congress  has yet failed to act.” Secretary
Romney, with the President when he made his remarks, said the Administration bill was not controversial and had
bipartisan support.
Immediate reaction came from Capitol Hill. The Democratic leadership maintained that the President had not sent 
Congress  any such legislation on Feb. 2.
Rep. Patman said the Administration had sent no message of any kind: “If the Administration was talking about an
‘Emergency Home Financing Act,’ it kept this fact a deep secret.”
One major Presidential document which did go to Congress  on Feb. 2 was the Budget. That same day, the
House Committee began hearings on several housing proposals, none of which had been initiated by the
Administration. (Committee hearings, below)
Democrats accused the President of trying to use housing legislation as a political weapon against them in
preparation for the fall Congressional elections.
In the Senate, Majority Leader Mike Mansfield (D Mont.) gave credit for passage of S 3685 April 16 to Sen. John J.
Sparkman (D Ala.), chairman of the Senate Banking and Currency Committee.
Rep. William A. Barrett (D Pa.), chairman of the House Subcommittee on Housing, said the Democratic members of
the full committee had been “actively trying to assist the mortgage credit market and the housing industry since the
early part of the year with little assistance from the Administration.”
Despite the charges by Congressional Democrats, White House Press Secretary Ronald L. Ziegler contended that no
mistake had been made. “I am not trying to get into the semantics of what the President said. In total context, the
thrust of what the President said,” Ziegler added, “was that we need the Emergency Home Financing Act.”
By the time the President addressed the nation June 17 on economic policy, he had eliminated any references to
the bill as Administration-sponsored. The text of his remarks said he “strongly supported” enactment of the bill.
When he gave the speech, he changed the words to “I urge enactment of….”
Senate Committee Action
HEARINGS. The Senate Banking and Currency Subcommittee on Housing and Urban Affairs held hearings March
2–6 on four bills: S 2958, to authorize the Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA) to purchase conventional
mortgages; S 3442, to carry out the recommendations of the Commission on Mortgage Interest Rates; S 3503, to
reduce the mortgage interest rate charged middle-income families; and S 3508, to establish a Federal mortgage
marketing corporation.
Testimony March 2
Sherman J. Maisel, board of governors, Federal Reserve System:
Improvements in the primary and secondary mortgage market are clearly needed. But serious considerations,
including the following problems, would make it difficult for the Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA) to
deal in conventional mortgages:
Increases in costs and risks because conventional mortgages lack the protective features of Government-underwritten
loans.
The possibility that entry of housing agencies into the conventional mortgage market, which serves lenders in all income
brackets, might occur at the cost of lessened support available for low- and middle-income credit programs.
If, as provided in S 3503, the Federal Reserve were directed to increase holdings of Federal home loan bank
obligations by up to $3 billion a year, credit markets would have to absorb a corresponding amount of Treasury
obligations above what would otherwise be marketed. Sale of additional Treasury obligations would attract funds
away from other uses, including home credit financing.
March 3
George Romney, Secretary of HUD:
There is a real need for a facility to deal with conventional mortgages, and in the 1970 housing legislation to be
proposed by the Administration there will be bills to authorize secondary market facilities for conventional mortgages
in both the Federal home loan bank system and FNMA.
The 1970 legislation will contain a dual-market proposal similar to the Mortgage Interest Rate Commission
recommendations. But HUD does not favor the bill to make 6 1/2-percent-interest-rate mortgage credit available to
families with annual incomes below $10,000 because the Department already offers home ownership subsidies to
substantially the same income group and because the money market operations contemplated by the bill would
7/2/09 2:11 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 16http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1293146&type=hitlist&num=2
substantially the same income group and because the money market operations contemplated by the bill would
have undesirable effects upon economic stabilization policy and on financial markets.
In order to produce the $20.5 billion of net new mortgage credit needed to finance 1.4 million housing starts:
A subsidy for Federal home loan banks to cover a part of the costs of raising funds in the open market will be proposed.
Assistance funds totaling $1.5 billion will be transferred from a less flexible to a more flexible section of the FNMA-
Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) program.
Insurance companies, commercial banks and pension funds will be asked voluntarily to support the mortgage market.
Mortgage-backed bonds guaranteed by GNMA will be marketed.
For rent supplement and home ownership assistance programs under Sections 235 and 236 of the 1968 Housing Act,
$25 million each in supplemental contract authority will be sought.
March 4
Norman Strunk, executive vice president, United States Savings and Loan League:
The simplest way for Congress  to help the mortgage market and stimulate home building is to pass such laws
or to get the Administration to take such steps as to increase the lending capacity of the savings and loan business
by 20 or 25 percent. A 20-percent increase in lending capacity would increase the flow of residential mortgage credit
by over $4 billion.
March 5
Louis R. Barba, president, National Association of Home Builders:
The Association objects strongly to a recommended amendment that would limit conventional mortgages sold to
FNMA to the Federal Housing Association (FHA) mortgage ceilings. This is an arbitrary and artificial limit on a
conventional secondary mortgage market operation which involves a class of mortgages on which no such limit is
otherwise applicable.
An approach to interest rates on FHA-VA mortgages under which there would be a free interest rate determined by
the market, but with no discounts allowed, if adopted by a lender, could lead to even higher interest rates. A second
approach, under which the Secretary of HUD would set the rate at the level he believed necessary to meet market
conditions, leaving discounts to be worked out by the buyer and seller of a home, ignores the fact that a discount is
in fact an element in the cost of a home.
Nat S. Rogers, president, the American Bankers Association:
The Association has organized a task force comprised of bankers who are experts in the realty investment and
mortgage field to create constructive and innovative ideas to increase the supply of mortgage funds. In its initial
meeting, the housing task force set as a goal for commercial banks a net increase of $4.3 billion in residential
mortgage holdings.
March 6
James V. Rice, vice president, mortgage finance, Pease Company:
The results of actions in the past decade among the Federal Reserve System, the Treasury and the related Federal
agencies at housing's expense is a national scandal. “I submit that actions taken by monetary authorities have
worked unconscionably and knowingly against the housing sector of the economy.” Their authority must be
controlled in the future.
ACTION. The Senate Banking and Currency Committee April 7 reported a clean bill (S 3685–S Rept 91–761), the
Emergency Home Finance Act of 1970, to provide additional funds for the home mortgage market and to reduce
interest rates and other expenses of home-buyers.
The bill included a provision by William Proxmire (D Wis.), chairman of the Committee's Financial Institutions
Subcommittee, authorizing the Federal Home Loan Bank Board (FHLBB) to issue obligations up to $3 billion
annually to provide lower-interest mortgage funds through the Federal home loan banks to member savings and
loan associations and other member institutions for loans to middle-income home-buyers. The obligations would be
sold to member banks of the Federal Reserve System under discount procedures which would require the Federal
Reserve to absorb interest costs above 6 percent. President Nixon, the Federal Reserve Board, and the chairman of
the FHLBB, Preston Martin, opposed the provision.
The primary objection was that to increase its holdings of FHLBB obligations the Federal Reserve would have to
reduce its holdings of Treasury obligations, forcing their sale in the market. That could have inflationary effects and,
in addition, defeat the purpose of issuing the FHLBB obligations, since the Treasury obligations would compete for
funds with housing and other capital improvements. Another objection was that use of Federal Reserve credit for
7/2/09 2:11 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 16http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1293146&type=hitlist&num=2
funds with housing and other capital improvements. Another objection was that use of Federal Reserve credit for
one special purpose could lead to other special-purpose uses—small business, or state and local financing, for
example—which would frustrate the Federal Reserve Board's conduct of monetary policy. Still another was that the
provision was a “backdoor financing” mechanism.
The Committee drafted the bill after holding hearings March 2–6 on four other bills: S 2958, to authorize the Federal
National Mortgage Association (FNMA) to purchase conventional mortgages; S 3442, to carry out recommendations
of the Commission on Mortgage Interest Rates; S 3503, to reduce mortgage interest rates charged middle-income
home-buyers; and S 3508, to establish a Federal mortgage marketing corporation. S 3685 incorporated many of the
provisions of the other bills.
PROVISIONS. As reported, S 3685:
Authorized appropriation of $250 million to the FHLBB to reduce interest rates (by absorbing interest charges, advancing
lower-interest funds, or other means) charged by Federal home loan banks to member institutions, with a 1-percentage-
point limit on the spread between the “effective” interest rate paid by home-buyers (interest plus “points” and other
charges) and the rate charged lending institutions for the funds.
Expanded FNMA's purchase authority, which was limited to Federally assisted—chiefly Federal Housing Administration
(FHA) and Veterans Administration (VA) — mortgages, to include conventional mortgages, with restrictions against
purchase of high-risk mortgages and other provisions designed to protect FNMA's portfolio and maintain its support of
the FHA and VA market.
Established a secondary mortgage market facility by creating a Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, under the
direction of the FHLBB, with initial maximum capital stock of $100 million, subscribed to by member banks of the
Federal home loan bank system, with authority to buy, hold, and sell mortgages within quality limits similar to those
established for FHA and with authority to borrow funds and issue mortgage-backed obligations.
Shifted $750 million (half the total available under the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1969) of the Government
National Mortgage Association (GNMA) special assistance funds to another category under which the President could
allocate it among several FHA programs, and liberalized restrictions on the use of the remaining $2-billion balance of
GNMA special assistance funds.
Authorized the FHLBB during tight-money periods to issue up to $3 billion annually in obligations to be purchased by the
Federal Reserve System at no more than 6-percent interest, the proceeds to be drawn on by Federal home loan banks
for advances to member institutions for home loans, with a maximum effective rate of as low as 7 percent for loans
within limits to be set by the FHLBB in a range of $20,000 to $30,000.
Established an experimental dual interest rate for FHA and VA loans with a fixed rate to be set by the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for direct VA loans and a free-rate system under which the Secretary and the
administrator of Veterans Affairs could insure or guarantee loans at any interest rate agreed to by the buyer and lender,
provided that no points or discounts were charged.
Extended from Oct. 1, 1970, to Jan. 1, 1972, the authority of the HUD Secretary to set maximum interest rates on FHA-
VA mortgages as necessary to meet mortgage conditions.
Required the Secretary and the VA administrator to prescribe standards governing the amounts of settlement costs
allowable in the financing of FHA- and VA-assisted housing, and required them to make recommendations to 
Congress  one year after passage of the Act concerning legislative and administrative actions to reduce and
standardize settlement costs.
Created a Special Advisory Commission on Housing to recommend to Congress  by Nov. 1 each year specific
housing goals for the following fiscal year and proposals for attaining them.
Minority Views. Wallace F. Bennett (R Utah), John G. Tower (R Texas), Charles H. Percy (R III.) and Charles E. Goodell
(R N.Y.), in minority views on the bill, said its controversial proposals—the $3-billion FHLBB authority and the free
rate on FHA and VA mortgages—would delay passage of the other provisions, which were greatly needed by the
housing industry and home-buyers.
They called the FHLBB financing authority a major change in the central banking system and argued against its
inclusion in an emergency financing measure. Further, they said, other provisions of the bill provided more potential
mortgage financing than the housing industry could absorb.
They argued that the grant of authority to the FHLBB would subject the Federal Reserve Board to control by an
Executive agency. Such virtually unrestricted authority was not granted to an Executive agency even during World
War II, they said. In their views, $3 billion would not be sufficient to offset withdrawals from the mortgage market
during a credit crunch but would encourage further withdrawals during such a period.
Supplemental Views. In additional minority views, Bennett, Tower, and Percy questioned the 1-percentage-point
spread in interest rates allowed by the bill. They said that in periods when a narrow spread prevailed lending
institutions tended to repay advances from home loan banks rather than to make new loans.
Senate Floor Action
7/2/09 2:11 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 16http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1293146&type=hitlist&num=2
The Senate April 16 by a 72–0 roll-call vote passed an amended bill (S 3685), the Emergency Home Finance Act of
1970, to provide additional funds for the home mortgage market and to reduce interest rates and other expenses of
home-buyers. The bill then was sent to the House. (Vote 127, p. 23-S)
Debate. Sen. Sparkman, the floor manager for S 3685, said the bill was an effort to counter effects that the
Administration's anti-inflation policy was having on the housing industry.
“Unless something substantial is done right away—at the beginning of the 1970 home-building season—” Sparkman
said, “to bring relief, a far worse housing crisis than is presently being experienced will occur later this year.”
Sparkman said that new housing starts in 1969 dropped each month from a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.9
million in January 1969 to 1.3 million in December.
The Alabama Democrat quoted Sherman J. Maisel, a governor of the Federal Reserve Board, as having said that
during a similar inflationary period in 1966 the housing industry, which comprises about 3.5 percent of the Gross
National Product, absorbed 70 percent of the impact of the Federal Reserve Board's tight money policy.
An important change was made in the bill when the Senate accepted an amendment by William Proxmire (D Wis.)
providing for mandatory appropriations to subsidize Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA) and Federal
Home Loan Mortgage Corporation loans during periods of tight money.
The Proxmire amendment deleted a provision that he himself had included in the Committee report which would
have required the Federal Reserve Board to buy all housing certificates presented to it by the Federal Home Loan
Bank Board (FHLBB) at 6-percent interest.
President Nixon, the Federal Reserve Board and FHLBB Chairman Preston Martin had opposed the Federal
Reserve Board provision.
Provisions. As passed, S 3685:
Authorized appropriation of $250 million to the FHLBB to reduce interest rates (by absorbing interest) charges,
advancing lower-interest funds, or by other means) charged by the Federal home loan banks to member institutions and
authorized the FHLBB to determine the percentage spread in the effective rate of interest charged to home-buyers and
the rate charged lending institutions for the funds.
Expanded FNMA's purchase authority, which was limited to Federally assisted—chiefly FHA and VA —mortgages, to
include conventional mortgages, with restrictions against purchase of high-risk mortgages and other provisions designed
to protect FNMA's portfolio and maintain its support of the FHA and VA market.
Limited the purchases of mortgages by FNMA to those with a loan-to-value ratio of not more than 75 percent unless the
seller retained a participation in the mortgage of at least 10 percent, the seller agreed to repurchase or replace the
mortgage upon demand in the event of a default or if the excess above 75 percent were privately insured or guaranteed.
Established a secondary mortgage market facility by creating a Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, under the
direction of the FHLBB, with initial maximum capital stock of $100 million, subscribed to by member banks of the
Federal home loan bank system, with authority to buy, hold, and sell mortgages within quality limits similar to those
established for FHA and with authority to borrow funds and issue mortgage-backed obligations.
Shifted $750 million (half the total available under the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1969) of the Government
National Mortgage Association (GNMA) special assistance funds to another category under which the President could
allocate it among several FHA programs, and liberalized restrictions on the use of the remaining $2-billion balance of
GNMA special assistance funds.
Authorized annual appropriations to subsidize mortgage loans on single-family housing for middle-income families
during tight money periods to keep the interest rate as low as 7 percent. The subsidy payments would be made
quarterly from HUD to FNMA and the newly created Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation. The bill additionally
provided discretionary authority to the Secretary of HUD to use 10 percent of available funds for mortgages on existing
housing. Authorized $60 million annually for subsidy payments for a three-year period.
Established an experimental dual interest rate for FHA and VA loans with a fixed rate to be set by the Secretary of HUD
for direct VA loans and a free-rate system under which the Secretary and the administrator of Veterans Affairs could
insure or guarantee loans at any interest rate agreed to by the buyer and lender, provided that no points or discounts
were charged.
Extended from Oct. 1, 1970, to Jan. 1, 1972, the authority of the HUD Secretary to set maximum interest rates on FHA-
VA mortgages as necessary to meet mortgage market conditions.
Required the Secretary and VA administrator to prescribe standards governing the amounts of settlement costs
allowable in the financing of FHA- and VA-assisted housing, and required them to make recommendations to 
Congress  one year after passage of the Act concerning legislative and administrative actions to reduce and
standardize settlement costs.
Created a Special Advisory Commission on Housing to recommend to Congress  by Nov. 1 each year specific
housing goals for the following fiscal year and proposals for attaining them.
7/2/09 2:11 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 16http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1293146&type=hitlist&num=2
housing goals for the following fiscal year and proposals for attaining them.
Authorized the states to charge lower interest rates than required by Federal law for urban renewal or pub-1 lie housing
until their legislatures could amend applicable state laws.
Allowed the GNMA to purchase mortgages in excess of a statutory limitation of $22,000.
Authorized the Secretary of HUD to borrow from the Treasury to meet liabilities resulting from HUD guarantees covering
obligations of new communities.
Amendments Accepted
April 16–William Proxmire (D Wis.)-as modified by Jacob K. Javits (R N.Y.)—Delete a section of the bill which would
require the Federal Reserve Board to purchase housing certificates thus providing funds for mortgage loans for
middle-income housing at a maximum interest rate of 6 percent per year. Substitute a mandatory appropriation to
subsidize the Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA) and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation; and
provide discretionary authority to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to use 10 percent of
available funds for mortgages on existing housing. Voice vote.
Carl T. Curtis (R Neb.)–Authorize the states to charge lower interest rates than required by Federal law for urban
renewal or public housing until their legislatures could amend applicable state laws. Voice vote.
Javits—Allow the Government National Mortgage Association to purchase mortgages in excess of its statutory
$22,000 limit. Voice vote.
Walter F. Mondale (D Minn.)—Authorize the Secretary of HUD to borrow from the Treasury to meet liabilities resulting
from HUD guarantees covering obligations of new communities. Voice vote.
John J. Sparkman (D Ala.)—Delete statutory one-percent limitation on the spread between interest rates charged by
the Federal Home Loan Bank Board and member banks and require the Board to determine the appropriate
limitation. Voice vote.
Sparkman-Exempt the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation from Federal income tax. Voice vote.
House Committee Action
HEARINGS. The House Banking and Currency Committee held hearings Feb. 2–7, 9, 16, 17, 19, 20, 24 and 25 on
a number of bills to provide additional mortgage funds at reasonable interest rates and a bill (HR 11) to reorganize
the Federal Reserve Board.
During the hearings, HUD Secretary Romney expressed the Administration's hope that the private sector voluntarily
would make more mortgage money available for housing. If that did not occur, he said, the Administration would
take necessary steps to improve the situation. (Romney testimony, below)
Committee Chairman Patman Feb. 2 said the panel would consider legislative proposals to fill the gap between
housing which could be provided by private enterprise and national housing needs. Included were these bills:
HR 13694–to create a Federal home owners mortgage loan corporation to make direct loans to moderate-income
home-buyers at interest rates of 6 1/2 percent or less.
HR 14639–to create a National Development Bank to make direct loans or to guarantee loans to finance low- and
moderate-income housing, some public facilities, and business or industrial facilities to improve employment
opportunities. Interest rates would be no higher than 6 percent.
HR 15402–to encourage tax exempt private pension funds to invest in Government insured or guaranteed low- or
moderate-income housing.
HR 11–to require the Federal Reserve Board to consult more closely with Government agencies, shorten Board
members' terms to five years, enable the President to appoint his own chairman, require the Board to seek operating
appropriations from Congress , require it to submit to independent audits and abolish the Open Market Committee.
Testimony Feb. 2
John V. Lindsay, mayor of New York City:
In New York the housing dilemma means almost half a million apartments unfit to live in: with peeling plaster, which
can cause brain-damaging lead poisoning; with children left at night to the mercy of cold and rats and filth; with
exposed wires and dangerous gas heaters and rotted wood which can burst into flames—and with a pervasive
sense of despair so great that it offers not only suffering, but hopelessness.
Almost half the housing is 40 years old. Twenty percent of rental units are substandard; 26,000 persons in one
7/2/09 2:11 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 16http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1293146&type=hitlist&num=2
Almost half the housing is 40 years old. Twenty percent of rental units are substandard; 26,000 persons in one
winter week complained of inadequate heat. There is no money to build new housing for low- and moderate-income
families.
New York expected in 1969 to build 30,000 units of Government-assisted housing but built fewer than 8,000. During
the tight money period, New York has found it almost impossible to borrow money for housing. Construction costs
are rising fully one percent a month; mortgage financing difficulties in 1969 nearly halted FHA moderate-income
home building, and Federal funding to encourage private construction is lacking.
The goal Congress  set two years ago—of building 26 million new housing units in the next 10 years—is simply
a joke.
Feb. 3
Kenneth M. Wright, chief economist, Life Insurance Association of America, discussed the 1970 outlook for money
and capital supplies, and the mortgage outlook in particular:
The Association's annual analysis of investment funds for 1970 indicates that funds to become available are
expected to total $92.5 billion, a decline of $5 billion from funds supplied in 1969.
Many borrowing demands will go unsatisfied in 1970. Of the expected $92.5 billion, the amount expected to be
available to the mortgage market is $25.2 billion, including $14.2 billion for home mortgages, $4 billion for
multifamily residential mortgages and $7 billion for other mortgages. Mortgage funds available are expected to
decline by $2.5 billion from the 1969 total. Government programs are expected to provide roughly half of the $18.2
billion in residential mortgage money indicated for 1970.
A shortage of mortgage credit exists because interest rates in other financial markets have risen steeply while
mortgage rates have not kept up because of rate ceilings and usury laws. To normalize the market, inflation must
be reduced, requiring fiscal restraint through a sizeable Federal budget surplus and monetary restraint through
restrictions on bank credit expansion.
Lester C. Thurow, professor, Massachusetts Institute of Technology:
Between 1970 and 1980, approximately 30 million housing units—requiring an extra $40 billion a year—must be
built if American families are to be adequately housed. Money must be shifted to housing from consumer loan,
business investment and Government bond markets. An easy-money policy with rapid increases in the money
supply will be necessary. New taxes will be required to raise the $40 billion: a consumption tax could encourage
individuals to save money, and an investment tax and incentive schemes could encourage businesses and state
and local governments to do the same. Substantial tax increases will be needed.
Materials and labor will be sufficient to meet the housing needs if a program of greatly expanded training is
instituted in the construction trades or if there are cutbacks in construction of factories and commercial buildings.
Land scarcity and an expected cost increase of 40 percent above inflation increases, however, will make it
necessary to expand geographic areas which existing cities can cover by introducing radically improved urban
transportation systems.
Robert C. Wood, former Under Secretary of HUD (1966–69):
There is now nationwide indifference to the plight of the poor and those who are suffering in the housing shortage.
Two conditions are distressing:
A disturbing national tendency to replace goals instead of fulfilling them, to shift emphasis in 1970 from the priorities of
urban development established only two years ago to those of the natural environment. This unhappy trend fringes on
environmental escapism.
An apparent unwillingness to consider important new approaches and reluctance to use existing institutions and delivery
systems to fullest capacity.
The nation is not taking seriously the obligations freely undertaken in urban legislation. American politics verge on
becoming politics of self-deception, whether by agitation for unspecified utopias or bold pronouncements of
aspirations with neither program nor plan.
Feb. 4
Channing E. Phillips, president, Housing Development Corporation:
America needs a housing “delivery system” which deals comprehensively with land, labor, materials, market and
money, and commitment to getting housing built.
Systems used in other countries have produced six dwellings per day, or 100 in less than a month. In contrast, a
new project in this country just begun by the Housing Development Corporation for 108 dwellings will take 15
months to finish.
7/2/09 2:11 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 9 of 16http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1293146&type=hitlist&num=2
Congress  should deal with the gritty issues of land control by the use of Federal pre-emption and frozen land
value mechanisms. Congress  also should consider the question of zoning as a restrictive and discriminatory
tool. Congress  could consider subsidy of the family, rather than of the housing unit, as a real tool in moving
toward economic integration.
Richard Daley, mayor of Chicago:
The cities are caught in a dilemma. Citizens and the Federal agencies rightly demand destruction of every
substandard home. At the same time, the same Federal agencies say cities cannot tear down bad buildings until
they relocate the tenants in standard housing. Meanwhile, Federal officials cannot provide the resources to build
relocation housing or new housing. The situation has been further aggravated by a tight credit situation.
Feb. 5
Robert Eisner, professor, Northwestern University:
One sure way to bring inflation under control is to end its cause: the war and accompanying high military
expenditures. This should be recognized as a matter of economics, not politics.
Evidence of an end to inflation is uncertain and by at least one indicator—the most recent increase in the wholesale
price index—inflation is becoming worse. The money supply should be allowed to grow by a rate of at least 6
percent per year.
John J. Cummings Jr., chairman, Urban Housing Corporation, a nonprofit group to provide seed money and
expertise to sponsors of low- and moderate-income housing in Rhode Island:
The large percentage of financing for each project will be raised by first mortgage loans furnished by Rhode Island
banks on a pool basis and mostly insured by the FHA. Ten million dollars has been committed by banks; most
projects will qualify under HUD's Sections 235 and 236 assisted housing programs.
Feb. 6
Joseph Keenan, international secretary, International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers:
The public wrongly believes labor is primarily responsible for housing cost increases and that significant cost
reductions are possible through industrialization. This is doubtful because a highly industrialized industry requires
capital which investors will not supply to the industry because it is the yo-yo of the economy.
The International Brotherhood is investing 50 percent of all available funds in mortgages, supporting housing. The
union recommends a mortgage formula for pension plans with a fixed annual percentage investment cumulative to a
predetermined amount of the total pension investment portfolio.
Feb. 7
Arthur F. Burns, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board:
The Board is deeply concerned about the decline in housing production and the cost increase in buying, financing
and operating new and existent housing. The single most important contribution toward improving the housing
market would be success in the struggle to check inflationary trends and expectations. It will be vital to preserve the
taut fiscal position of the Administration's Budget.
The Board supports continued large-scale extension of credit by agencies such as Federal National Mortgage
Association and the Federal home loan banks to aid housing, and aiding disadvantaged families by subsidizing their
mortgage debt. But the Board does not favor tapping Federal Reserve credit to restructure credit flow. Taking
housing or other assets into the reserve would require correspondingly heavy offsetting sales of treasury securities.
That would lead to a weakened market position for Treasury securities, and inflation.
The board also recommends:
Greater standardization of mortgage laws and provision of facilities to package mortgages in large enough lots to make
them more attractive to pension plans.
Authority for member banks of the Federal Reserve System to borrow from the reserve banks on the security of
mortgages or any other sound asset at the regular discount rate.
An increase to 90 percent of the loan-to-value limit of mortgage loans, and an increase in maximum maturity from 25 to
30 years. On large construction projects, the maximum maturity should be extended from three to five years.
Detailed study of the possibility of establishing a broad secondary market for conventional residential mortgages.
Feb. 9
Paul W. McCracken, chairman, Council of Economic Advisers:
7/2/09 2:11 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 10 of 16http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1293146&type=hitlist&num=2
The tax reductions effective in 1970 have made impossible a large budget surplus, which would have improved the
outlook for housing. It is hard to conceive of anything that would so certainly block the revival of housing as the
return of budget deficits, forcing the Federal Government into the capital markets again as a new borrower. Rapid
technological development in the housing industry, an adequate supply of savings to finance private borrowing to
meet both the needs for housing and the economy, and a means by which housing could acquire its needed share
of the total savings on terms that will encourage construction and purchase of homes, are required to aid the
industry.
Feb. 16
Joseph L. Alioto (D), mayor of San Francisco:
The 1968 Housing Act and 1969 new authorizations, in combination, aroused more false hope than we can tolerate
in this country. “It must be a luxury to be able to turn the funding faucet for housing on and off at will in
Washington. We don't have that choice back home. Families on relief must have decent shelter and courts are
directing state and local governments to foot the bill.” To improve the housing situation:
Low- and moderate-income rental and ownership programs should be increased through supplemental appropriations in
the next 60 days.
National housing policy should be broadened so programs could deal concurrently with the need for social programming,
public facilities, jobs and economic growth in distressed areas.
Tax incentives should be considered as a means of preventing a collapse of the housing industry.
John E. Krout, chairman, committee on mortgage investments of the National Association of Mutual Savings Banks:
A return to less monetary stringency, better financial balance and significantly lower interest rates is absolutely
essential if mortgage credit is to be available to finance 26 million housing units in the next 10 years. There must be
an immediate reordering of national priorities, a restructuring of the nation's major credit suppliers, and
supplementary sources of mortgage credit made available.
Joe Swire, director, collective bargaining services, International Union of Electrical, Radio and Machine Workers:
Pension funds and insurance company assets should provide mortgage financing. When these soar into the
hundreds of billions and more, someone has to consider the economic impact of indiscriminate investments of such
tremendous sums. It is imperative that somebody survey the needs of the economy and suggest investment in
specific fields.
Charles P. Landt, National Association of Real Estate Boards:
To aid the housing industry:
A secondary market for conventional loans in the Federal National Mortgage Association should be created.
The Association and other mortgage originators should issue marketable securities, against pools of FHA and VA
mortgages and conventional mortgages, guaranteed by the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA).
Federal agency obligations should have high enough minimum denominations to minimize competition with mortgage-
oriented thrift institutions.
Some savings invested in savings and loan associations or mutual savings banks should be exempted from Federal
income taxation.
FHA and VA mortgages should be exempted from the application of state usury laws.
Feb. 17
Robert Ash Wallace, vice chairman of the Exchange National Bank of Chicago and former Assistant Secretary of
the Treasury (1963–69):
The Government is going to borrow some $10 billion more than the Budget contemplates; unemployment could
easily reach 5 to 5 1/2 percent, and inflation will likely stay near the 1969 rate. For housing, these factors indicate:
Greater availability of mortgage money as monetary policy eases in the wake of a recession;
Greater availability of labor, as unemployment increases in the recession;
Continued increases in construction costs because of cost-push inflationary forces.
7/2/09 2:11 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 11 of 16http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1293146&type=hitlist&num=2
There should be a modest easing of tight-money policies; the President should abandon his hands-off policy on
wage and price decisions and White House industry conferences on national economic goals should be scheduled
regularly.
Adlai E. Stevenson III (D), Illinois State Treasurer:
In Illinois programs have been developed to mitigate some harsh impacts of national monetary policy by channeling
public funds through banks into starved public needs. Illinois invests almost all funds not required for short-term
state expenditures in bank time deposits, with the understanding that banks will supply a like amount of funds for
specific public programs. The banks receive a marginal return on otherwise unavailable dollars and perform a
community service.
Feb. 19
Louis R. Barba, president, National Association of Home Builders:
Permanent surgery should be performed by Congress  on the monetary system to reflect properly the mortgage
market's position in the system. The Association directors believe that bills in this Committee should not be limited
to low- and moderate-income housing. The Federal Reserve Board should be adjusted to changed priorities; the
basic enabling statutes should be amended to make it clear a purpose of the system is to assure a stable
residential mortgage market with adequate funds to meet the nation's housing goal.
James V. Rice, Home Manufacturers Association:
The Federal Home Loan Bank Board could provide a useful service by building up cash “cushions” during times of
relatively high rates, such as the present. A Federally chartered corporation to provide a secondary mortgage
market, with thrift institutions granted statewide lending authority, could guarantee family home financing.
Norman Strunk, executive vice president, United States Savings and Loan League:
To aid the housing industry:
The nature of the mortgage instrument should be improved.
Greater lender participation in home mortgages should be encouraged.
Congress  should appropriate, along the lines of the bills suggested, substantial sums for housing.
Actions should be taken to assure that savings and loan associations get a larger share of the savings dollar.
The devastating competition from small-denomination Treasury securities and Government obligations should be
stopped.
Feb. 20
Allan Oakley Hunter, president, Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA), described its operations:
In 1969 FNMA bought $4.2 billion in mortgages and supported the market with commitments totaling $6.5 billion. As
a result of FNMA support of Government-backed mortgages, in 1969 when total housing starts declined 3 percent,
and conventional starts fell 4 percent, FHA- and VA-financed starts rose 2 percent. Federal home loan bank efforts,
including fund advances of $4 billion, also helped support the mortgage market.
Preston Martin, chairman, Federal Home Loan Bank Board:
Congress  should authorize up to $300 million to stimulate funds for depressed housing markets. Legislation is
being prepared as part of the President's 1970 housing program to authorize the Federal home loan bank system to
apply these funds to a program aimed at curbing the steadily rising interest rates charged to member savings and
loans for advances. Authorization will be sought for the bank to conduct a secondary market in conventional, FHA
and VA mortgages held by institutions insured by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation and the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Such a market mechanism will help draw pension funds and other investors
seeking bond-type investments into mortgages.
Feb. 24
George Romney, Secretary of HUD:
In five years, the housing shortage has increased to at least 1.2 million units, and perhaps to as much as 2.5 million
units if all the families who bought mobile homes during this period do not consider their housing needs adequately
met. The nation's total housing need certainly exceeds the 26 million additional units Congress  called for in
setting a 10-year national goal.
For the first time in a credit-induced housing crisis, production of FHA-VA housing starts was sustained, although all
7/2/09 2:11 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 12 of 16http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1293146&type=hitlist&num=2
For the first time in a credit-induced housing crisis, production of FHA-VA housing starts was sustained, although all
other housing starts fell. In 1969, starts under all subsidized programs rose by 14.5 percent to a record level of
223,600 units. This calendar year, budget plans call for at least a doubling of last year's starts. In 1971 we expect to
be up to the housing goal level in production of low- and moderate-income housing.
But the Department can clearly be responsible only for subsidized housing, up to 15 percent of all housing starts
last year. The other 85 percent is beyond our Department's immediate control and depends basically on policies of
the Treasury, the Bureau of the Budget, the Council of Economic Advisers, the Federal Reserve and others.
The broad middle population sector is being squeezed as never before, underscoring the need for an effective and
total housing program. Steps which should be included are:
Extension of Operation Breakthrough from technology to land use and costs, management, financing, marketing,
appearance, user satisfaction and the over-all environment.
Action to provide more effective ways of encouraging orderly urban growth, particularly assembly of large land sites at
reasonable costs in suitable locations.
Encouragement to maintain, repair, and rehabilitate existing buildings and neighborhoods.
Action to increase substantially skilled and unskilled construction labor.
Steps to insure construction materials at reasonable cost, to expand housing opportunities for low-income families, and
to make the core cities more attractive to middle- and upper-income white people.
The Department will shortly recommend:
Elimination of the workable program requirement for subsidized housing to which it still applies;
Elimination of the local government resolution requirement for leased public housing;
A new statute prohibiting local legislative or administrative action discriminating against housing subsidized by the
Federal Government.
The Department's 1970 legislation will attempt to consolidate and streamline legislative controls of housing
programs, will utilize the public housing program to increase opportunities for home ownership, and will propose to
make available to public housing the full subsidy to make up the difference between the rents actually collected from
specific units and the operating costs attributable to those units.
The goal for increased residential mortgage lending by groups of institutions should be attainable on a voluntary
basis, and by the beginning of May we should know whether this approach is eliciting a significant flow of new
mortgage commitments. The situation will then be reviewed to see whether additional measures are necessary.
Other measures to be suggested will seek increased flexibility and strength in the FHA-VA mortgage market, will
outline regulations for publication of mortgage-backed bonds guaranteed by the GNMA, and would create a
secondary market facility for conventional mortgages in both the Federal home loan banks and FNMA.
James V. Smith, administrator, Farmers Home Administration:
More than two million rural families are living in deteriorating homes that need more repairs than can be provided in
regular maintenance. About one million rural families are living in homes in such poor condition that they endanger
the health and safety of the occupants. One of three homes in rural areas does not have complete bath facilities.
One of five does not even have water piped into the house. Three of five are without central heat.
The Administration helped about 50,000 rural families obtain adequate homes in fiscal 1969, compared to fewer
than 4,000 in 1950, who received loans. The goal for 1970 is 83,000; 1971 is projected at about 150,000 homes.
Feb. 25
Leon H. Keyserling, former chairman, Council of Economic Advisers (1950–53), and president, Conference on
Economic Progress:
The crisis in housing is a prime cause of the current economic recession, and if not properly dealt with will provoke
serious economic troubles for years. A complete reconstruction of Federal Reserve Board policies and imposition of
strict Congressional control over Federal Reserve System operations should be imposed.
A first step to assist the industry would be for Congress  to legislate a ceiling of 3 to 4 percent on private and
public loans for housing and related community improvements. This will hurt for a while and produce many squawks.
But, in the long run, the downward movement of one type of interest rate after another will be highly beneficial to all
but the usurious, while the jacking up of one type after another is like playing Russian roulette with our economy
and our people.
Raymond P. Harold, president, Worcester (Mass.) Federal Savings and Loan Association:
7/2/09 2:11 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 13 of 16http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1293146&type=hitlist&num=2
There exists now a system of 12 regional Federal home loan banks and a network of 6,000 local, grass-roots
associations which far from being overburdened are underutilized. Why wouldn't it be infinitely simpler and much
less expensive to tell the savings and loan industry what you want it to do and give it the necessary tools. It could
build on the start called for by (Federal Home Loan Bank Board Chairman) Preston Martin, who requested $300
million to stimulate the flow of funds into the bank system for the depressed housing market. Tax breaks could be
given to depositors in savings and loan associations, and to individual and institutional purchasers of Federal home
loan bank obligations. The bank system should be permitted to handle HUD-subsidized housing loans.
James F. Linehan Jr., president, Development Corporation of America:
The current system of housing finance is obsolete and unworkable in the current American market economy. The
system is based on the notion that personal thrift is a human attribute which collectively will provide the capital base
of mortgage financing for purchase of housing. Housing finance, therefore, has been the function of thrift institutions.
As personal thrift has been compromised by a constant cycle of inflation, by extended consumer credit plans as well
as by employment security systems, pension and retirement plans, Social Security programs, health and medical
insurance, savings have been institutionalized and are no longer managed on a retail, localized basis.
We must accept public management of monetary and fiscal policy as the only workable solution to the extremes of
inflation and deflation which a private market economy will periodically produce. To demand that the pendulum stop
swinging is unrealistic. To demand that the housing industry receive periodic emergency pump-priming is short-
sighted and irresponsible.
The disease is the inability of this industry to compete for investment capital. The cure must be a restructuring of
the financing system upon which volume production and marketing of housing must be based.
ACTION. The House Banking and Currency Committee May 28 reported an amended bill (HR 17495–H Rept 91–
1131), the Emergency Home Finance Act of 1970, to provide additional funds for the home mortgage market.
HR 17495 had been approved by the full Committee's Subcommittee on Housing May 7. The full Committee met in
executive session May 12, 21 and 26 and ordered HR 17495, as amended, favorably reported. The vote was 32-1
with one Committee member voting present. HR 17495 was designed from a number of other bills examined by the
Committee (listed above).
Provisions. As reported, HR 17495:
Authorized appropriation of $250 million to the Federal Home Loan Bank Board to reduce the interest rates charged by
Federal home loan banks on short-term and long-term loans to member associations.
Provided that not more than 20 percent of the $250 million appropriated to the Federal Home Loan Bank Board be
disbursed in any one Federal home loan bank district.
Expanded the purchase authority of the Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA) to include conventional
mortgages in addition to the Federally underwritten mortgages it had been purchasing and selling. Included limitations
against purchase of high-risk mortgages by FNMA.
Limited the purchases of mortgages by FNMA to those with a loan-to-value ratio of not more than 75 percent unless the
seller retained a participation in the mortgage of at least 10 percent, the seller agreed to repurchase or replace the
mortgage upon demand in the event of a default or if the excess above 75 percent were privately insured or guaranteed.
Authorized the establishment of a secondary mortgage market facility called the Federal Home Loan Mortgage
Corporation, under the direction of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, with initial maximum capital stock of $100
million, subscribed to by member banks of the Federal home loan bank system.
Authorized the Corporation to purchase residential mortgages from members of Federal home loan banks and financial
institutions which were insured by an agency of the United States. Limited the kind and quality of mortgages eligible for
purchase to protect against the accumulation of high-risk mortgages.
Provided for an increase of $1.5 billion in special assistance authority for the Government National Mortgage
Association (GNMA) to increase its purchases of mortgages underwritten by the Federal Government for low-cost
housing.
Extended from Oct. 1, 1970, to Oct. 1, 1971, the authority of the HUD Secretary and the Veterans Administration (VA)
administrator to waive the statutory interest-rate ceiling on FHA and VA housing programs and to set maximum interest
rates as found necessary to meet mortgage market conditions.
Provided discretionary authority to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to permit member banks to
use a portion of their required reserves as investments to finance the construction or acquisition of residential property.
Directed the HUD Secretary and the VA administrator to prescribe standards governing the amounts of settlement costs
allowable in any area in connection with the financing of FHA- and VA-assisted housing.
Additional Views. Chairman Patman said the bill failed to provide “a meaningful response” to the country's housing
crisis, especially for moderate-income families. The bill did not add any money to the country's pool of mortgage
7/2/09 2:11 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 14 of 16http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1293146&type=hitlist&num=2
crisis, especially for moderate-income families. The bill did not add any money to the country's pool of mortgage
funds, Patman said, and, therefore, was an Emergency Home Finance Act “in name only.”
The real effect of the bill, Patman said, was to appropriate more money to subsidize high interest rates on loans
made from a pool of mortgage funds that was inadequate to meet housing needs. Patman objected to the deletion
by the Committee of Title V of the bill which authorized the creation of a National Development Bank to provide a
minimum $4 billion a year to purchase 200,000 housing units for low-income and moderate-income families.
Separate Views. Leonor K. Sullivan (D Mo.) said HR 17495 contained palliatives for the lending industry, largely in
the form of subsidies to the lenders to enable them to lend mortgage money at prevailing high interest rates.
Mrs. Sullivan said one measure which would have provided direct housing loans to moderate-income families at
reasonable rates of interest was HR 13694. The bill which she introduced established the Home Owners Mortgage
Loan Corporation, she said, to make direct loans to families with incomes up to $12,000 a year to obtain 30-year
mortgages of up to $24,000 at 6 1/2-percent interest or less.
Title V, which was stricken from the bill by the Committee, she said, contained a modification of the Home Owners
Mortgage Loan Corporation idea.
Individual Views. W. E. Brock III (R Tenn.) criticized the provision in the bill giving the Federal Reserve Board “carte
blanche” authority to allow member banks to count as part of their required cash reserve investments made in
Federal housing agency securities. Brock said the grant of authority gave the Board power “to hand banks hundreds
of millions of dollars in windfall profits, to impair or even completely freeze the liquidity of the entire banking system
and to direct the flow of investment funds into a specific sector of the economy.”
House Floor Action
The House June 25 by a 323–2 roll-call vote passed an amended bill (HR 17495), the Emergency Home Finance
Act of 1970, to provide additional funds for the home mortgage market. Five amendments to the Administration-
supported measure were accepted and one rejected. (Vote 105, p. 38-H)
After passage, the House by voice vote substituted the language of HR 17495 for the language of the Senate-
passed bill (S 3685) and passed S 3685, as amended, by voice vote.
Debate. A main issue in the debate was a Committee amendment to delete from the bill the Title V provisions to
create a National Development Bank. The Bank would provide a minimum $4 billion a year to finance 200,000
housing units for moderate-income families who could not obtain mortgage loans from conventional lending
institutions.
Patman, who proposed creation of the Bank, argued that HR 17495 would not provide “a realistic answer to the
nation's housing crisis” without Title V. The crisis was focused, Patman said, on the lack of available mortgage funds
at reasonable rates, which had resulted in a reduction in housing starts to an annual average rate of 1.2 million
units. The total was only 46 percent of the volume required to meet the country's annual housing goals, Patman
observed.
Patman said the Administration was “operating under a system of double standards” over housing credit. In 1969, 
Congress gave the President authority for credit controls, Patman said, but the President had refused to exercise
that authority and also had opposed Title V. “Yet, at the same time, the Administration has shown itself willing to
bend over backwards in its attempts to bail out the big bank creditors and wealthy stockholders of Penn Central
railroad,” he added.
Opponents of Title V argued that it could take as long as a year to set up the Bank, which was not consistent with
the aim of the bill to provide immediate emergency relief to the housing market. They also questioned the
constitutionality of the proposal.
The amendment to delete Title V was approved by a 215–113 roll-call vote. (Vote 104, p. 38-H)
Another amendment aimed at increasing mortgage credit for moderate-income families was defeated by voice vote.
The proposal, sponsored by Leonor K. Sullivan (D Mo.), sought to create a Home Owners Mortgage Loan Corporation
to allow families earning up to $12,000 annually to obtain mortgages up to $24,000 at 6 1/2 percent or less.
Provisions. As passed, S 3685:
Authorized appropriation of $250 million to the Federal Home Loan Bank Board to reduce the interest rates charged by
Federal home loan banks on short-term and long-term loans to member associations.
Provided that not more than 20 percent of the $250 million appropriated to the Federal Home Loan Bank Board be
disbursed in any one Federal home loan bank district.
Expanded the purchase authority of the Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA) to include conventional
mortgages in addition to the Federally underwritten mortgages it had been purchasing and selling. Included limitations
against purchase of high-risk mortgages by FNMA.
7/2/09 2:11 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 15 of 16http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1293146&type=hitlist&num=2
Limited the purchases of mortgages by FNMA to those with a loan-to-value ratio of not more than 75 percent unless the
seller retained a participation in the mortgage of at least 10 percent, the seller agreed to repurchase or replace the
mortgage upon demand in the event of a default or if the excess above 75 percent were privately insured or guaranteed.
Authorized the establishment of a secondary mortgage market facility called the Federal Home Loan Mortgage
Corporation, under the direction of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, with initial maximum capital stock of $100
million, subscribed to by member banks of the Federal home loan bank system.
Authorized the Corporation to purchase residential mortgages from members of Federal home banks and financial
institutions which were insured by an agency of the United States. Limited the kind and quality of mortgages eligible for
purchase to protect against the accumulation of high-risk mortgages.
Provided for an increase of $1.5 billion in special assistance authority for the Government National Mortgage
Association (GNMA) to increase its purchase of mortgages underwritten by the Federal Government for low-cost
housing.
Extended from Oct. 1, 1970, to Oct. 1, 1971, the authority of the HUD Secretary and the Veterans Administration (VA)
administrator to waive the statutory interest-rate ceiling on FHA and VA housing programs and to set maximum interest
rates as found necessary to meet mortgage market conditions.
Provided discretionary authority to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to permit member banks to
use a portion of their required reserves as investments to finance the construction or acquisition of residential property.
Directed the HUD Secretary and the VA administrator to prescribe standards governing the amounts of settlement costs
allowable in any area in connection with the financing of FHA- and VA-assisted housing.
Authorized $2.1 million in additional contract authority in fiscal 1971 for college housing.
Amendments Accepted
June 25–Committee amendment—Delete Title V to provide for the establishment of a National Development Bank.
Standing vote, 86–38; teller vote, 114–58; roll-call vote, 215–113.
William A. Barrett (D Pa.)—Amendment to a Committee amendment to give the General Accounting Office authority to
audit the books of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation. Voice.
Committee amendment-Authorize the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to permit member banks
to use a portion of their required reserves to finance construction or acquisition of residential real property. Teller,
91–90.
Robert G. Stephens Jr. (D Ga.)—Authorize an additional $2.1 million in contract authority for college housing in fiscal
1971. Voice.
William B. Widnall (R N.J.)—A technical amendment reaffirming the authority of state and local governments to tax
and regulate local, limited housing partnerships under the National Housing Partnership program, but not to tax a
limited partner of the partnership which was not otherwise subject to taxation or regulation by the state or local
jurisdiction. Voice.
Amendments Rejected
June 25–Leonor K. Sullivan (D Mo.)—Create a Home Owners Mortgage Loan Corporation to make mortgage loans of
up to $24,000 at 6 1/2-percent interest or less to families with annual incomes of $12,000 or less. Voice vote.
Conference Report
House and Senate conferees July 20 filed a conference report (H Rept 91–1311) on S 3685.
The following were the major agreements reached by conferees on differing provisions:
The House bill prohibited FNMA and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation from offering securities to finance
conventional secondary market operations when the HUD Secretary determined that such borrowing would unduly
inhibit the financing of GNMA special assistance functions. The Senate bill contained no similar provision and it was
dropped from the final version of the bill.  The conferees indicated, however, that they intended the Secretary of HUD to
exercise his authority to prohibit the borrowings if such borrowings would inhibit the financing of GNMA special
assistance functions.
The Senate bill reallocated $750 million in GNMA special assistance funds from Congressional to Presidential authority.
The House had provided an additional $1.5 billion in special assistance authority for GNMA. The final bill contained new
authority of $750 million and a reallocation of $750 million.
Conferees amended a new interest subsidy program for middle-income families which was contained in the Senate but
not the House version of the bill.  The interest subsidy payments were made available for the financing of cooperative
7/2/09 2:11 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 16 of 16http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1293146&type=hitlist&num=2
not the House version of the bill.  The interest subsidy payments were made available for the financing of cooperative
housing as well as single-family housing and for mortgages guaranteed by the VA. Conferees also set an annual
authorization of $105 million for a three-year period, rather than the Senate-approved $60 million, and provided that up
to 25 percent of the funds for the program could be used for existing housing, rather than 10 percent.
Conferees accepted the Senate provision extending to Jan. 1, 1972, the authority of the HUD Secretary to set maximum
interest rates on FHA-VA mortgages as necessary to meet mortgage market conditions, rather than the House provision
which extended the authority to Oct. 1, 1971.
Conferees dropped a House provision giving discretionary authority to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System to permit member banks to use a portion of their required reserves for directly or indirectly financing the
construction or acquisition of residential real property.
Conferees increased the lending limit for savings and loan associations from $40,000 to $45,000 per single-family
dwelling.
Final Action
The Senate July 17 and the House July 20 by voice votes adopted the conference report on S 3685.
Document Citation
"Congress Clears Emergency Home Finance Act Of 1970." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal70-
1293146. Originally published in CQ Almanac 1970 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1971).
http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal70-1293146 (accessed July 2, 2009).
Document ID: cqal70-1293146
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal70-1293146
© 1971, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
