7/2/09 2:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1294351&type=hitlist&num=9
Document Outline
House Hearings
Conference Report
Fair Credit Reporting
An article from CQ Almanac 1970
Congress Oct. 13 cleared for the President a conglomerate bill (HR 15073—PL 91 - 508 ) including provisions
regulating credit information reporting and use.
The provisions were added by the Senate Sept. 18 as a nongermane amendment (“rider”) to HR 15073, a bill to
curb violations of U.S. laws and avoidance of taxes through use of secret foreign bank accounts. (Story on foreign
bank account bill, p. 884)
The Senate originally had passed the fair credit provisions (S 823) in November 1969. (1969 Almanac p. 577)
Although the House Banking and Currency Committee held hearings on the bill in March and April, it did not report
HR 15073.
Final action on the bill came Oct. 13 when the House adopted the conference report on HR 15073, including the fair
credit reporting provisions. The Senate had adopted the report Oct. 9.
Provisions. As cleared by Congress, the provisions of HR 15073 pertaining to fair credit reporting:
Authorized the furnishing of credit information by reporting agencies only: (1) in connection with credit, insurance,
employment or a Government license, for any of which a person had applied; (2) for a business transaction in which the
subject of the information was involved; (3) by written consent of the subject, or (4) in compliance with a court order.
Prohibited reporting of adverse information more than seven years old regarding suits, arrests and other matters except
bankruptcies, for which information could be made available for 14 years.
Prohibited reporting of adverse information from investigative reports more than three months old unless the information
was reverified.
Required reporting agencies to follow reasonable procedures to assure maximum accuracy of information contained in
reports.
Limited information which could be furnished to Government agencies without a court order.
Required a reporting agency, on request, to disclose to a consumer all information about him in the agency's files, other
than medical, and its sources.
Required a person or business ordering an investigative report to notify the consumer that an investigation was being
made.
Required an agency to disclose to a consumer the names of persons and businesses furnished credit information about
him in the preceding six months (two years for employment purposes).
Required agencies to reinvestigate disputed information, delete unsubstantiated information and include in their reports
any statements on disputed matters furnished by the consumers involved.
Required a person or business rejecting a consumer for credit, insurance or employment on the basis of a credit report
to advise the consumer and identify the reporting agency.
Permitted civil actions in Federal courts to recover damages resulting from willful and negligent noncompliance.
Made obtaining information under false pretenses for credit reporting and willfully giving out credit information to
unauthorized persons punishable by a fine of up to $5,000 and imprisonment for up to one year.
Gave the Federal Trade Commission enforcement power over reporting agencies and unregulated users; required
Federal regulatory agencies to enforce compliance by regulated businesses.
 
7/2/09 2:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1294351&type=hitlist&num=9
Federal regulatory agencies to enforce compliance by regulated businesses.
Background. American consumers in 1969 owed $116 billion in outstanding credit. Because of the trend to credit
buying, a vast organization of credit bureaus had developed to supply credit information. More than 2,000 bureaus
maintained files on more than 110 million individuals and in 1967 issued more than 97 million credit reports to
400,000 creditors in 36,000 communities. These agencies had no public supervision. With the trend toward use of
computers, there was fear that a gigantic national data bank including extremely personal information on nearly all
consumers would be created with no public safeguards to protect the American buyer.
House Hearings
The House Banking and Currency Subcommittee on Consumer Affairs held hearings in March and April on a
number of bills allowing persons to look into and to challenge or correct their credit dossiers on file with private
credit bureaus.
Two of the bills studied by the Subcommittee were the Fair Credit Reporting Act (HR 16340) and the Senate-
passed measure (S 823).
Testimony March 17:
Cornelius E. Gallagher (D N.J.):
While the individual needs credit, insurance and employment, we cannot allow such necessities to be purchased at
the price of privacy. The individual must be able to make sure his credit records are correct. Legal responsibility
must fall on those who can damage a man's chance for deserved credit, insurance or employment and credit
information must be used solely for the purpose for which it was given.
All information yielded should be subjected to due process of law. There should be no privilege against any future
legal action in the giving of credit information because the damage to the individual may often have been done
before he knew what erroneous information had been disseminated.
Only identifying information should be given in response to a subpoena. If a Federal agency wants anything else in
a credit repository, the individual concerned must be informed and be able to contest the action.
We are past the time when information can be regarded as the sole property of those who manage the system. The
individual must be able to restrict unwelcome access to information he has provided for the necessities of modern
life.
A great public utility, dealing solely in data on individually identifiable Americans, is looming on the horizon and it is
up to the Congress to assure that such a data-rich society does not become privacy-poor.
March 19
Harry C. Jordan, TRW Information Services Inc., and Credit Data Corporation:
The Credit Data Corporation supports S 823. It does not support HR 16340 because it is unduly burdensome and
restrictive.
With the use of computers, the storage of information which is old and outdated simply cannot be permitted
because of storage costs. It is possible to review all of the data in a computer file within a few hours and remove
that which is outdated.
There should not be administrative regulation of credit agencies. Also, agencies should not be held liable for simple
negligence if a mistake appears in an individual's file.
A computerized file will be meaningless to an individual should he be permitted to see it.
Legislation is needed to prohibit non-credit granting Governmental agencies from obtaining information from credit
files except in cases involving national security.
March 20
Lawrence Speiser, American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU):
The ACLU believes the individual should have a right to demand and inspect his credit file; should have the right to
contest the accuracy of the information, to have errors recorded in the files and reported to prior recipients of the
original information and should have the right to place explanatory information in the file.
HR 16340 appears to go the furthest to protect the consumer. But, Government agencies which do not grant credit
should not be allowed to obtain even identifying information from private agencies without subpoena.
Arthur R. Miller, University of Michigan:
7/2/09 2:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1294351&type=hitlist&num=9
The Senate bill, S 823, does not offer citizens effective relief from improper credit bureau activities. The House bill
HR 16340 cures the inadequacies of the S 823.
Every consumer should be allowed to find out what the credit bureaus know about him, be able to correct any
inaccurate or misleading information and find out who has looked in his file.
Retail credit bureaus often engage in surveillance activities and record derogatory information based on off-the-cuff
opinions from sources whose reliability is never tested. Thus, a substantial mass of dangerous and often inaccurate
material has been gathered and its dissemination probably is causing considerable damage to many individuals.
Computerization will allow credit data networks to obtain even more detailed and sensitive information about
individuals.
The existing legal structure does not take account of the massive shifts of data technology and the increased
danger of information in a computer-based society.
Mr. and Mrs. Paul R. Prietsch, Hale-Prietsch Services, Inc.:
Accurate disclosure to an individual of information in his credit file is more fitting than allowing him to have access to
the file. Credit bureaus should have immunity from legal action as a condition for an individual's access to his file.
Information should be held for seven years, not three. Notice of arrests or indictments where no convictions resulted
should be permissible, along with divorce actions, alimony payments, child support and repossessions.
If HR 16340 is enacted, agencies would be forced to cease filing public information and records and the cost of
credit to the consumer would be greatly increased.
March 24
William F. Willier, National Consumer Law Center:
Studies by the Center have shown that many of the consumer problems with credit agencies can be solved cheaply
if the agencies put their ingenuity to work. They do not seem to want to be held to the standard of ordinary care to
which other business enterprises are held. There is no justification in logic why a consumer reporting agency which
is a commercial, profit-making enterprise, should enjoy a conditional privilege.
S 823 offers solutions for a number of problems, but HR 16340 offers solutions to even more and provides realistic
civil remedies to the consumer.
Royal E. Jackson, Division of Bankruptcy, administrative Office of the United States Courts:
The Division approves in principle HR 16340 but suggests two changes. First, bankruptcies should not be reported
longer than seven years from the date of adjudication of the most recent bankruptcy. Secondly, the bill does not
deal with the possible conflict of interest where a credit reporting bureau is operated as an integral part of a debt
collection agency.
April 7
Charles N. Walker, American Life Convention and Life Insurance Association of America:
It is important that insurance underwriters have available all possible information on individuals bearing a risk
classification. A mistake in underwriting will benefit one policy-holder to the detriment of all others in his class. The
Fair Credit Reporting Act, in this respect, should be modified.
April 8
Alfred S. Roberts, credit manager, B. Altman and Co., New York:
Any legislation which seriously interferes with the free flow of both positive and negative information, which unduly
increases the cost of that information or which impairs the confidence of credit granters by arbitrarily imposing
information gaps does a grave disservice to the consumer whose credit records are unquestionable. The result of
restricted credit information is restricted credit granting.
The Senate bill, S 823, is a practical piece of legislation, as opposed to the grave concerns which HR 16340 raises.
Edward Herbert, Robert Morris Associates (National Association of Bank Loan and Credit Officers):
The application of HR 16340 to commercial loan transactions would do the most damage to those business loan
applicants who can least afford it—the young, growing privately owned businesses. It is the smaller company who
could suffer the most if the banker has insufficient information available to justify the extension of credit to it.
Another possible victim of credit regulations could be the minority businessman. If the flow of information is impeded
by fear of its disclosure, the loan applicant will suffer because the lending officer will have an insufficient basis upon
which to support a favorable decision.
The definitions in HR 16340 specifically exempt from regulation any credit information obtained for the purpose of
7/2/09 2:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal70-1294351&type=hitlist&num=9
The definitions in HR 16340 specifically exempt from regulation any credit information obtained for the purpose of
establishing eligibility for commercial credit or for any extension of credit in an amount over $5,000 not secured by
real estate or by tangible personal property.
Allen P. Stults, American Bankers Association (ABA):
The ABA believes that both S 823 and HR 16340 present problems. However, S 823 is more effective in achieving
the goals of fair credit legislation than HR 16340 which defeats the basic purposes of the bill. The Senate bill
provides for a more self-enforcing law.
The banking industry's existence depends on getting accurate and complete credit information. The extent of the
credit check and the time and costs involved must be a management decision. This cannot be practicably spelled
out in legislation.
Virginia H. Knauer, Special Assistant to the President for consumer affairs:
Industry guidelines do not go far enough, and enforcement under a voluntary code is extremely difficult. I support
the general objectives of HR 16340 with some exceptions. Punitive damages should be limited to $100 of civil
liability. Two years seems ample time within which consumers can bring suits.
A consumer reporting agency should not be permitted to require an individual to grant immunity from legal action as
a condition for obtaining access to his file. And, the opportunity to correct inaccurate or misleading information is
essential.
The requirement on creditors to automatically report the disposition of their past due accounts could serve to dry up
the sources of credit information for agencies. This could be solved by requiring that information be updated
whenever a request for a report is received by the agency. I favor advance notification and written permission from
the individual prior to making an investigation.
Conference Report
House and Senate conferees Oct. 8 filed a conference report on HR 15073 (H Rept 91–1587).
The Senate had added the provisions of its fair credit reporting bill (S 823) to HR 15073 Sept. 18, along with the
provisions of another bill (S 721) restricting the issuance of unsolicited credit cards. (p. 621)
Conferees agreed on a number of changes in the provisions of S 823, the Fair Credit Reporting Act.
The conference version required all agencies reporting credit information—not just investigative agencies, as in the
Senate bill—to follow reasonable procedures to assure accuracy of their information. The conference agreement
required any user of a report who rejected a consumer for credit, insurance or employment to inform the consumer
of the source of the report. The Senate version required the consumer to request identification of the source in
writing.
Consumers were granted the statutory right, through court proceedings, to obtain identification of sources of
information about them in credit reports. The Senate-passed bill required agencies to disclose the sources of certain
information.
Final Action. The Senate Oct. 9 and the House Oct. 13, by voice votes, agreed to the conference report on HR
15073, completing Congressional action.
President Nixon signed the bill Oct. 26.
Document Citation
"Fair Credit Reporting." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal70-1294351. Originally published in CQ
Almanac 1970 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1971). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal70-1294351 (accessed
July 2, 2009).
Document ID: cqal70-1294351
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal70-1294351
© 1971, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
