7/2/09 3:18 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224171&type=hitlist&num=7
Banking
1998 Congress Clears Legislation
Allowing Credit Unions To Expand
Membership
1995 House Shelves Banking Overhaul
1994 Other Banking Legislation
Considered in 1994
1994 Community Development Banking
Provisions
1994 Banking Law Undergoes Revision
1991 Congress Clears Slimmed-Down
Banking Bill
1991 Banking Nominations
1988 Caught in Turf Battle, Bank
Powers Bill Dies
1986 Major Banking Legislation Stalls
in Last Hours
1985 Banking Bills Fail to Reach House
Floor
1979 Banking Deregulation
1978 Electronic Banking Services
1978 Banking Regulation
1976 Banking Changes Blocked
1975 Senate Approves Broader Banking
Powers
1974 Citicorp Notes
1974 Banking Insurance, Credit Bill
Cleared
1970 Regulation Extended to One-
Bank Holding Companies
1969 Bank Holding Companies
1967 Truth-In-Lending Bill Passed by
Senate
1966 Bank Supervision
1966 Bank Holding Company Act
Exemptions Changed
1965 Bank Investigation
1957 Banking Revision
1955 Bank Companies
Antitrust
Federal Reserve
Savings and Loan Industry
Stock Market and Financial Services
Banking Insurance, Credit Bill Cleared
An article from CQ Almanac 1974
Document Outline
Extension of Existing Law
Credit Protection Bill
Provisions
House Committee Action
House Floor Action
Senate Committee Action
Provisions
Senate Floor Action
Conference Report
Final Action
Congress Oct. 10 cleared HR 11221 (PL 93 - 495 ) extending and
revising federal bank regulations.
With the nation's banking system enduring unprecedented pressures from
inflation and high interest rates, Congress approved legislation that would
continue the existing federal regulatory structure without basic changes.
As cleared, HR 11221 made some significant changes, however, for instance
raising to $40,000 from $20,000 the amount of a bank or thrift institution
account that could be covered by federal deposit insurance. It also authorized
federal agencies to insure up to $100,000 in deposits in a savings account
made by the federal, state or local government.
Those provisions were intended to increase public confidence in the banking
system and help financial institutions, particularly savings and loan
associations, attract funds needed to finance the sagging housing market.
Other provisions would permit experimental conversions of savings and loan
associations into stock corporations and expand the Treasury's authority to
support housing markets.
Extension of Existing Law
Those innovations notwithstanding, the conference version of HR 11221 for
the most part continued existing federal regulatory policies toward the
banking industry. Although some technical changes were made, many
provisions simply extended the requirements of existing law.
One provision extended through 1975 the 1966 legislation (PL 89-597) that
authorized federal bank regulatory agencies to set ceilings on the interest
rates that commercial banks, savings and loan associations and other
financial institutions could pay on deposits of $100,000 or less. The Nixon
administration in 1973 recommended that the ceilings, imposed under the
Federal Reserve Board's Regulation Q, be phased out over five and a half years.
In periods of tight money and generally high interest rates, critics contended, the Regulation Q ceilings caused
savers to transfer money from savings accounts to other investments earning a higher interest, thereby reducing the
supply of funds available for mortgage lending.
Credit Protection Bill
Over the objections of a House subcommittee of the Banking and Currency Committee that was considering more
extensive legislation, the conference version included Senate-approved amendments to federal consumer protection
laws barring discrimination against women and limiting the financial liability of creditors subjected to class action
 
7/2/09 3:18 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224171&type=hitlist&num=7
laws barring discrimination against women and limiting the financial liability of creditors subjected to class action
suits.
The bill was sent to the President after the Senate Oct. 10 approved a House-Senate compromise version of the
bill. The House had acted Oct. 9. HR 11221 was originally passed by the House Feb. 5 and by the Senate
amended June 13. The consumer credit protection provisions were originally passed as separate legislation (S
2101) by the Senate July 23, 1973. (Consumer credit bill, 1973 Almanac p. 410)
Provisions
As signed into law, HR 11221:
Banking Regulation
Increased to $40,000 from $20,000 the amount of accounts in a private bank or thrift institution that could be covered by
federal deposit insurance.
Provided federal deposit insurance up to $100,000 on savings accounts of public funds deposited by federal, state or
local governments.
Extended to June 30, 1976, the moratorium on conversions by savings and loan associations into stock corporations
except for a limited number of experimental conversions to be authorized by the Federal Home Loan Bank Board.
Imposed a moratorium through June 30, 1976, on conversions by mutual savings banks into stock corporations.
Extended to Dec. 31, 1975, from Dec. 31, 1974, legislation (PL 89-597) giving federal bank regulatory agencies
authority to set ceilings on interest that banks, savings and loans and other financial institutions could pay on savings
deposits.
Authorized the Federal Reserve System to spend an additional $80-million to build branch banking facilities.
Renewed through Oct. 31, 1975, the authority of the Federal Reserve banks to buy up to $5-billion in federal bonds
directly from the Treasury.
Expanded the Federal Reserve Board's power to stop unsound banking practices by applying such regulatory authority
to bank holding companies or their non-bank subsidiaries if the parent company or a subsidiary were taking actions that
threatened another subsidiary bank.
Prohibited any federal official or agency from requiring that bank regulatory officials submit for prior approval their
testimony or recommendations to Congress.
Increased to $6-billion from $4-billion the Treasury secretary's authority to buy bonds issued by the Federal Home Loan
Bank Board, with the additional $2-billion in borrowing authority available for use to provide more funds for the bank's
support of mortgage markets only if monetary stringency and high interest rates reduced other sources of funds.
Authorized the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation to buy residential mortgages from state-insured mutual
savings banks in Massachusetts.
Provided a cash rebate from the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation reserve fund to savings and loan
associations that had accumulated balances in the fund that were larger than needed.
Removed Puerto Rico from inadvertent coverage by a 1973 law (PL 93 -100) putting a moratorium on state taxes
on out-of-state banking institutions.
Allowed federal credit unions to provide limited health, accident and other insurance for unpaid members of their boards
of directors.
Established a National Commission on Electronic Fund Transfers to study systems for transferring funds by electronic
communications instead of by exchanging cash or checks.
Directed that unclaimed money orders and unused travelers checks be paid to the government of the state where they
were purchased. (Under existing law, the proceeds went to the state government in the state where the company that
sold the instruments was located, usually New York state.)
Consumer Credit
The consumer credit protection provisions of HR 11221 amended the Truth in Lending Act of 1968 (PL 90-321) to
require customers to inform creditors in writing of alleged billing errors within 60 days after receiving the bill.
Creditors were then required to acknowledge the dispute within 30 days and to resolve it within 90 days by
correcting the customer's bill or explaining why the original bill was correct.
7/2/09 3:18 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224171&type=hitlist&num=7
Creditors who failed to do so would forfeit the amount in dispute up to $50, whether or not the bill was in error.
Creditors were prohibited from sending dunning letters, taking other actions or reporting such amounts as delinquent
before explaining to the customer why the bill was accurate.
If a customer continued to dispute a bill, the creditor could not report the disputed amount as delinquent to a credit
reporting agency unless he also notified the customer of his action. The creditor was required to inform the credit
agency of the amount in dispute and of any subsequent settlement of the dispute.
Creditors were required to identify each transaction contained in billing statements, to include an address for
handling disputes and to inform customers twice a year of their, right to have billing disputes resolved. They would
also have to mail monthly statements at least 14 days prior to the date that finance charges were imposed on
unpaid balances, to record customers' payments promptly and to credit excess payments or grant refunds, if
requested.
HR 11221 prohibited credit card issuers from requiring merchants to maintain deposits or purchase other services as
a condition of participating in the credit card plan. Credit card issuers could not prohibit participating merchants from
offering discounts to customers paying cash.
Financial institutions were prohibited from offsetting a consumer's credit card debt against a checking or savings
account unless, the customer agreed to such offsets.
A customer purchasing defective merchandise with a credit card issued by a third-party creditor was allowed to
bring the same claims and defenses allowed against a two-party creditor if the customer made a good faith effort to
secure satisfaction from the merchant handling the sale, if the transaction involved more than $50 and if the
purchase were made in the same state or within 100 miles of the customer's residence.
Under HR 11221, creditors were exempted from civil liability under the Truth in Lending Act for any action taken in a
good faith effort to comply with rules, regulations or interpretations of the act made by the Federal Reserve Board.
Amounts awarded by courts in class action suits were limited to $100,000 or 1 per cent of net worth, whichever was
lesser, with no limit on the amount of actual damages that could be collected.
Criminal penalties were established for fraudulent uses of credit cards in transactions of $1,000 or more and in
certain other fraudulent uses to 10 years imprisonment and fines of $10,000. (Existing law did not impose criminal
penalties unless the transactions amounted to $5,000.)
Discrimination by creditors or card issuers on any credit transaction on the basis of sex or marital status was
prohibited.
House Committee Action
As reported by the Banking and Currency Committee on Jan. 21 (H Rept 93 –751), HR 11221 provided full
federal insurance on both demand and time deposits by government units. Another provision, left unchanged on the
House floor, increased to $50,000 from the existing $20,000 the limit on the amount of a single deposit by any
person that could be insured.
By recommending full insurance on government accounts, the committee was attempting to encourage a flow of
deposits into savings and loan institutions to increase lending in the tight housing mortgage market.
In some states, savings and loan associations by law could not accept deposits of public money that amounted to
more than $20,000—the existing limit on federally insured deposits. Under those state laws, commercial banks, but
not savings and loan associations, were allowed to accept government deposits above $20,000 if they bought
government securities to back up the deposits.
As a result, savings and loan associations held only 2 per cent of $67-billion in federal, state and local government
bank deposits at a time when they were having difficulty finding funds to lend in housing markets.
By providing full federal insurance for government deposits, and thus overriding state laws favoring commercial
banks, HR 11221 as reported would have encouraged a flow of public funds to savings and loan associations. But
that result, opponents feared, would have unintended harmful effects on commercial banks and on state and local
government finances.
Under federal regulations, savings and loan associations could not hold demand deposits but could pay 1A per cent
more in interest on time deposits, such as savings accounts, than could commercial banks. Obligated to earn as
much interest as possible on public deposits, state and local officials, under the committee bill, thus might transfer
most of their funds to savings and loan associations from commercial banks unable to match those interest rates.
With banks no longer required to buy their securities to back up their deposits, moreover, state and local
governments could find the market knocked out from under their debt financing programs. As a result, borrowing
costs could rise for state and local governments and for the federal government as well.
As reported, HR 11221 also would have given bank insurance agencies authority to set limits on the aggregate
amount of government funds their members could hold to protect the members from large withdrawals.
7/2/09 3:18 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224171&type=hitlist&num=7
House Floor Action
The House Feb. 5 passed HR 11221 by a 282–94 recorded vote with 30 members voting “present.” (Vote 11, p. 4-
H)
In a complicated series of parliamentary maneuvers, the House adopted, inadvertently killed, revived and finally
gave its approval to an amendment continuing some states' requirements that banks hold state and municipal
securities as backing for demand deposits by government agencies.
The amendment, a compromise proposal by Robert G. Stephens (D Ga.), exempted demand deposits such as
checking accounts from legislation providing federal insurance on the full amount of state and local government
agencies' deposits in commercial banks and in thrift institutions such as savings and loan associations and mutual
savings banks.
To meet objections by bankers and by state and local financial officials, Stephens offered his amendment to restrict
full federal insurance to time deposits, leaving commercial bank demand deposits subject to the bill's $50,000 limit
on insured deposits. Public demand deposits in excess of $50,000 in many states still would have to be backed with
government bonds. Stephens' amendment also revamped the committee bill to allow federal agencies to limit only
the amount of government deposits that could be insured, not the amount of such deposits that could be held.
Acting on amendments to HR 11221, the House first by voice vote approved the Stephens amendment. In a
subsequent voice vote, however, the House adopted an amendment by Chalmers P. Wylie (R Ohio) that struck the
entire section dealing with insurance on government deposits, including Stephens' amendment.
In a second vote requested by Banking and Currency Subcommittee on Bank Supervision and Insurance Chairman
Fernand J. St Germain (D R.I.), however, the House reversed itself, rejecting Wylie's amendment by a 170–202
recorded vote. The effect of the 170–202 vote rejecting the Wylie amendment, Speaker Carl Albert (D Okla.) ruled,
was to restore the entire version reported by the committee—without the Stephens amendment. (Vote 9, p. 4-H)
Facing the prospect of passing a bill without the revisions it had approved only minutes before, the House found a
way out of its dilemma by recommiting HR 11221 to the Banking and Currency Committee with instructions to report
the measure back with Stephens' amendment in it.
That route could be followed, however, only after unusual parliamentary maneuvering. After Ben B. Blackburn (R Ga.)
offered a motion to send HR 11221 back to committee indefinitely, which probably would have killed it, the House
by a 122–259 recorded vote defeated a routine procedural step that would have ended debate and ruled out
amendments to Blackburn's motion. (Vote 10, p. 4-H)
By thus opening Blackburn's motion to amendment, the House gave itself the opportunity to tell the committee what
to do with the bill. By voice vote, the House then adopted an amendment by Thomas L. Ashley (D Ohio) instructing
the committee to attach Stephens' amendment to HR 11221 before sending the measure back to the floor.
After adoption of Ashley's amendment to the motion, in swift order the House by voice vote recommitted HR 11221,
St Germain reported it back with Stephens' amendment, and the House by voice vote accepted the amendment. HR
11221 then was passed by a 282–94 vote.
Senate Committee Action
The Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee June 4 reported HR 11221 (S Rept 93 –902). The
committee made a number of changes in the House bill, including adding an amendment that would allow
experimental conversions of savings and loan associations into private stock corporations.
Over the objections of William Proxmire (D Wis.), who was expected to become its chairman in 1975, the committee
approved that provision but at rejected an amendment requiring General Accounting Office (GAO) audits of the
Federal Reserve System.
Proxmire, the committee's second-ranking Democrat and long-time banking industry critic, filed dissenting views to
both decisions, made during mark-up of the bill.
What Proxmire protested most vociferously in additional views to the report was committee approval of a provision
that would allow at least 30 U.S. savings and loan associations to reorganize into capital stock companies that could
acquire capital by selling securities to the public. Under existing regulations, all federally-chartered and most state-
chartered, savings and loan associations were mutual organizations whose assets were owned by the depositors
who entrusted savings to them.
Proxmire and Harrison A. Williams Jr. (D N.J.) also objected to the committee's refusal to include in HR 11221 an
amendment requiring regular GAO audits of the Federal Reserve System—for 40 years the only important agency of
government not audited for Congress by the GAO, they said in additional views. The provision was strenuously
opposed by the Federal Reserve Board and its chairman, Arthur F. Burns.
The House May 30 passed separate legislation (HR 10265) requiring GAO audits after meeting Federal Reserve
7/2/09 3:18 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224171&type=hitlist&num=7
The House May 30 passed separate legislation (HR 10265) requiring GAO audits after meeting Federal Reserve
objections by forbidding judgments on the board's administration of monetary policy. (Story on HR 10265, this
chapter)
In reporting HR 11221, however, the Senate committee incorporated other provisions that the House approved as
part of the Federal Reserve audit legislation. Those amendments would renew the Federal Reserve banks' authority
to buy up to $5-billion in federal government bonds directly from the Treasury and increase to $140-million from
$60-million the amount the Federal Reserve was authorized to spend to build branch banks.
The committee also revamped provisions the House had included in passing HR 11221 on Feb. 5. It dropped a
House amendment providing federal insurance on the full amount of time deposits by state and local governments. It
also increased to $25,000 from $20,000 the maximum amount of a deposit that could be insured by a federal
agency; the House bill increased the limit to $50,000.
The committee attached to HR 11221 provisions that would extend through 1975 the authority of federal banking
regulatory agencies to set flexible interest rate ceilings for time and savings deposits. The authority, which was due
to expire at the end of 1974, was used by regulatory authorities to allow savings and loan institutions to pay interest
rates that were 1/4 per cent higher than the maximum that commercial banks were allowed to pay. The differential
was intended to encourage deposits in institutions that used the money primarily to finance home mortgages.
(Latest extension, 1973 Almanac p. 233)
The committee also approved provisions that would replenish $3-billion in emergency Treasury lending authority that
President Nixon used May 10 in announcing plans to pump $10.3-billion into the housing market.
Savings and Loan Conversions
Ending a moratorium on conversions of savings and loan associations into stock companies that had been in effect
since 1963, HR 11221 as reported by the Senate committee would provide for a two-year test program allowing at
least 30 mutual associations to reorganize.
The bill would give the Federal Home Loan Bank Board authority until June 30, 1976, to approve applications for a
limited number of conversions by savings and loan associations in states whose laws allowed thrift institutions to
reorganize into capital stock companies.
Such experimental conversions, the committee contended in its report, would enable Congress “to learn as much as
possible about the problems of conversions and the techniques available to deal with such problems.”
The board had imposed an administrative moratorium on conversions in 1963 in response to abuses that took place
during 58 conversions the board had approved between 1948 and 1963.
In 1972, however, the board suspended the moratorium and allowed conversion by a San Francisco savings and
loan association. The board then announced it would consider more conversions under regulations it published in
January 1973.
The board's regulations proved controversial, and Congress in passing legislation that extended the flexible interest
rate ceiling authority (HR 93 –6370—PL 93 -100) continued the moratorium through June 30, 1974.
The Senate committee's proposal would continue the moratorium for most savings and loan associations for two
years but make exceptions for a limited number of test conversions. The board would be permitted to allow
conversions by:
Seven savings and loan associations that had applied for approval to convert before Congress extended the moratorium
in 1973.
Up to 23 associations in the 22 states that allowed conversions under state regulations.
A limited number of associations in each state that adopted legislation allowing conversions after May 22, 1974. (Florida
had passed and New Jersey was considering conversion legislation.)
Proxmire objected that the committee proposal “substantially repeals the moratorium…. Nothing will be gained from
these experiments when the basic conversion plan is inherently defective,” Proxmire charged.
Housing Funds
To replenish the lending authority being used by the administration to assist the troubled housing industry, the
committee by a 6–5 vote added to HR 11221 an amendment temporarily increasing the authority to $7-billion.
On May 10, the President had directed the Treasury to use $3-billion of its existing $4-billion authority to buy
Federal Home Loan Bank obligations. By buying those bonds, the Treasury could make more money available to
the bank for loan advances to member savings and loan associations and to buy up conventional mortgages.
In additional views, Republicans John G. Tower (Texas), Wallace F. Bennett (Utah) and Bill Brock (Tenn.) objected that
the committee's action “seems to imply that Treasury funds are not just available in an emergency, but that they
constitute an unlimited source of mortgage credit whenever money conditions become tight….”
7/2/09 3:18 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224171&type=hitlist&num=7
Provisions
As reported to the Senate, HR 11221:
Allowed the Federal Home Loan Bank Board to approve conversion into capital stock companies by a limited number of
savings and loan associations while continuing to June 30, 1976, a general moratorium on such conversions.
Increased to $25,000 from $20,000 the maximum amount of a single deposit that could be insured by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation, Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation and the National Credit Union
Administration.
Extended to Dec. 31, 1975, from Dec. 31, 1974, the authority of federal banking regulatory agencies to set flexible
ceilings on interest on time and savings deposits.
Increased to $140-million from $60-million the Federal Reserve System's authority to use funds earned in its operations
to build branch banks.
Renewed the Federal Reserve banks' authority to buy up to $5-billion in federal obligations directly from the Treasury.
(The authority, which had lapsed on Oct. 31, 1973, provided a ready source of funds that the Treasury could borrow for
short periods, usually just before tax payment dates, when its cash balance was low.)
Temporarily increased to $7-billion from $4-billion the Treasury's authority to buy Federal Home Loan Bank obligations.
Renamed the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation the Federal Savings Insurance Corporation.
Placed a moratorium on conversions of mutual savings banks to commercial banks until  June 30, 1976.
Provided that no government official could require bank regulatory agencies or the Securities and Exchange
Commission to submit congressional testimony or legislative proposals for prior review by the Office of Management
and Budget.
Prohibited federal bank regulatory agencies from issuing regulations exempting federally chartered institutions from state
consumer protection laws.
Allowed the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation to buy up conventional mortgages from state-insured mutual
savings banks in Massachusetts.
Established a commission to study systems for transferring funds by electronic communications instead of by
exchanging cash or checks.
Senate Floor Action
The Senate June 13 passed HR 11221 by an 89–0 roll-call vote. (Vote 246, p. 39-S)
Taking a stand against inflation, the Senate tacked a $295-billion federal spending ceiling onto legislation raising
federal deposit insurance limits and making other changes in federal banking regulations.
By a 74–12 roll call, the Senate adopted an amendment by William Proxmire (D Wis.) that would limit federal outlays
during fiscal 1975 to $295-billion, more than $10-billion less than the Nixon administration's updated budget
projections. (Vote 245, p. 39-S)
Proxmire Amendment
A $10-billion spending cut imposed by Congress “would break the back of inflation,” argued Proxmire, the second-
ranking Democrat on the Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee and long-time critic of wasteful government
spending. In addition to muting the federal budget's stimulating effect on demand, Proxmire contended, a $295-
billion ceiling would “convince the public that the federal government is playing its part in curbing inflation.”
No senators spoke against the amendment—the second $295-billion debt ceiling proposal by Proxmire given Senate
approval in 1974. The first, which was attached to legislation (S 2986) continuing federal wage and price control
authority, was killed when the Senate voted to table the entire bill. (Story on S 2986, this chapter)
Only six Republicans and six northern Democrats voted against the amendment; its adoption was in part a protest
against President Nixon's economic policies, especially against the $305.4-billion in fiscal 1975 federal spending
contemplated in the administration's budget. A $10-billion spending cut would reduce the expected fiscal 1975 deficit
to about $1-billion from the $11.5-billion projected by the administration's updated budget figures.
Before the Senate voted on Proxmire's amendment to HR 11221, Congress itself already had added $437-million to
the President's January budget proposals, according to estimates by the Joint Committee on Reduction of Federal
7/2/09 3:18 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224171&type=hitlist&num=7
the President's January budget proposals, according to estimates by the Joint Committee on Reduction of Federal
Expenditures.
Other Major Provisions
The rate of inflation—11.5 per cent during 1974's first quarter—and other economic troubles wore much on senators'
minds as they debated HR 11221, which combined several provisions intended to strengthen the nation's banking
system and relieve a tight housing market.
As reported June 4 by the Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee, HR 11221 carried amendments—some
routine and some controversial—designed to encourage home mortgage lending.
With interest rates at record levels, housing had suffered as savings and loan associations—primary sources of
mortgage credit—had trouble attracting savings to finance their lending.
The most controversial provisions of HR 11221, both modified by floor amendments, would allow some savings and
loan associations to convert to capital stock companies and replenish lending authority used by President Nixon in
May to pump funds into the housing market.
Concerned by the precedent of putting Treasury money indirectly into the housing market, the Senate altered a
committee amendment that increased to $7-billion from $4-billion the Treasury's emergency authority to lend funds
to the Federal Home Loan Bank Board by buying its bonds. The amendment would have replaced $3-billion in that
authority that the President May 10 ordered used in implementing a $10-billion housing assistance plan.
By voice vote, the Senate adopted an amendment by Bill  Brock (R Tenn.), a Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs
Committee member who opposed the committee proposal, that cut the increase to $2-billion. Brock's amendment
also required that any of the $2-billion loaned to the Federal Home Loan Bank system would have to be paid back
once officials determined that emergency assistance no longer was needed.
The Senate made only minor changes in controversial committee-approved provisions allowing the Federal Home
Loan Bank Board to approve on an experimental basis requests by some savings and loan associations to
reorganize as capital stock companies.
The board had sought to end a moratorium on such conversions imposed in 1963. By converting to capital stock
companies owned by investors who bought their securities, savings and loan associations could attract more funds
for mortgage lending.
Opponents of such conversions, including Proxmire, charged that ending the moratorium would risk abuses by
groups that gained control of most of the stock issued by reorganized associations. Under the mutual ownership
form of organization used by all federally regulated and most state-regulated savings and loan associations, the
associations' assets were owned by depositors who kept their savings in the association. Conversions to capital
stock organizations posed problems of determining ownership of those assets.
As a compromise, HR 11221 continued the moratorium in general effect for two years but allowed a limited number
of conversions to test various methods of assigning assets.
Making one modification in the committee's conversion provisions, the Senate by voice vote adopted an amendment
by Lawton Chiles (D Fla.) adding Florida to the list of 23 states that permitted test conversions by state-regulated
savings and loan associations. Florida June 19 enacted a law allowing conversions after Jan. 1, 1975. Under the
committee bill, Florida would have been covered by a provision in effect allowing the board to approve only one
conversion in a state that adopted a law permitting conversions after a May 22, 1974, cut-off date.
Trying to force House action on a bill the Senate passed in 1973, the Senate by voice vote also adopted an
amendment by Brock and Proxmire that attached to HR 11221 provisions similar to broad consumer credit
legislation (S 2101).
Like S 2101. which was stalled in the House Banking and Currency Committee, the amendment would bar sex
discrimination in credit transactions, protect consumers against unfair billing practices, prohibit credit care fraud and
make technical changes in federal truth-in-lending laws. (1973 Senate action, 1973 Almanac p. 410)
Other Amendments
In other actions, the Senate by separate voice votes adopted amendments:
By John G. Tower (R Texas) allowing the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation to buy mortgages from state-
insured banking institutions in all states, not just Massachusetts as under the committee bill.
By Tower directing that unclaimed money orders and unused travelers checks be paid to the government of the state
where they were purchased. (Under existing law, the funds went to the government of the state where the issuing
company was based, in most cases New York. The Senate adopted similar provisions in a bill passed on Feb. 28.)
(Votes 41, 42, p. 8-S)
By Tower giving a cash rebate from the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation reserve funds to savings and
loan associations that had accumulated balances in the fund that were larger than required.
7/2/09 3:18 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224171&type=hitlist&num=7
By Tower allowing federal credit unions to provide limited health, accident and other insurance for unpaid members of
their boards of directors.
By John Sparkman (D Ala.) making a technical correction to remove Puerto Rico from coverage under a 1973 law
restricting state taxes on out-of-state banking institutions.
By Walace F. Bennett (R Utah) requiring an Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations study of a committee
bill provision that would prohibit federal bank regulatory agencies from exempting federally chartered institutions from
state consumer protection laws.
Conference Report
In their conference report on HR 11221 (H Rept 93–1429), filed Oct. 4, House and Senate conferees agreed to
keep most of the substantive amendments that the Senate had added to the House-passed bill.
Conferees compromised House-Senate differences over the two main provisions of the bill as passed by the House
on Feb. 5. The House version raised federal deposit insurance limits to $50,000 from $20,000 and allowed federal
insurance on the full amount of federal, state and local government bank savings (but not checking) deposits of
public funds.
The Senate version, passed on June 13, raised the insurance limit on private deposits only to $25,000 and made no
provision for a higher limit on government deposits. Conferees settled on a $40,000 limit for private deposit
insurance and a $100.000 limit for insurance on government savings deposits.
Conferees accepted Senate amendments that would permit the Federal Home Loan Bank Board to approve
requests by a limited number of savings and loan associations to convert into capital stock companies that could
raise capital by selling ownership shares. While making exceptions for those conversions, the bill would continue a
general moratorium on savings and loan conversions through June 30, 1976.
In other actions, conferees accepted Senate amendments extending Regulation Q, thus renewing the Federal
Reserve banks' authority to buy up to $5-billion in federal bonds directly from the Treasury and authorizing the
Federal Reserve to spend $80-million to build branch banks.
The House May 30 had approved amendments authorizing the construction funds for branch banks and continuing
the authority to buy bonds directly from the Treasury as part of separate legislation (HR 10265) requiring General
Accounting Office (GAO) audits of Federal Reserve finances. The Senate took no action on HR 10265.
Conferees also accepted a Senate amendment increasing by $2-billion the Treasury secretary's authority to buy
bonds issued by the Federal Home Loan Bank to raise funds for the bank's operations supporting the home
mortgage market. The $2-billion increase—to $6-billion from $4-billion—partly replenished $3-billion in lending
authority that former President Nixon May 10 had ordered put to use.
Conferees approved Senate provisions allowing the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation to buy mortgages
from mutual savings banks insured by the Massachusetts state government. They dropped a Senate floor
amendment that would have extended that power to mortgages held by all state-insured banking institutions, not
just the Massachusetts mutual savings banks.
House conferees accepted Senate amendments that were identical to the comprehensive consumer protection
legislation (S 2101) that was passed by the Senate in 1973. The House Banking and Currency Committee had taken
no action on S 2101, which barred credit discrimination in credit transactions, protected consumers against unfair
billing practices, prohibited credit card fraud and made technical changes in truth-in-lending laws.
Conferees dropped several Senate amendments, including a floor amendment that would have imposed a $295-
billion ceiling on fiscal 1975 federal outlays.
Final Action
House
Before taking the conference report to the House floor Oct. 9, Banking and Currency Committee leaders took the
unusual step of asking the Rules Committee for a special resolution that would head off opposition to the Senate's
consumer credit amendments, added to the bill by conferees, from the House committee's own Subcommittee on
Consumer Affairs.
The Rules Committee complied, reporting a rule (H Res 1422) that waived points of order against nongermane
Senate amendments that House conferees had accepted. Without those waivers, opponents could have objected to
the Senate amendments and, if they were sustained by the chair, forced a debate and recorded vote on each one.
(House rule, Congress and the Nation Vol. III, p. 387)
When the rule came to the floor, Subcommittee on Consumer Affairs Chairman Leonor K. Sullivan (D Mo.) objected to
“in effect a closed rule” that would deprive members of a chance to vote on legislation that had not been fully
considered in House committee and floor action.
7/2/09 3:18 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 9 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224171&type=hitlist&num=7
Sullivan objected principally to Senate-passed provisions limiting business liability for damages under class action
suits and barring sex discrimination in extending credit. She argued that those provisions should have been
considered separately in subcommittee-approved legislation (HR 14856) that was pending before the full House
committee.
By limiting a business's liability for damages under class action suits against misleading credit practices, the
Senate's bill would “close out and wipe out the consumer's greatest defense against violations of the Truth-in-
Lending Act,” she charged. The provisions, which would limit liability to $100,000 or 1 per cent of the company's net
worth, handed “a lobbying victory of incredible magnitude” to banks, loan companies, catalog houses and national
retail chains, she contended.
While barring credit discrimination against women, Sullivan added, the Senate bill failed to protect the elderly,
minorities and religious groups against similar discrimination.
Banking and Currency Committee Chairman Wright Patman (D Texas) and other committee members argued that
with little time left in the session the conference report on HR 11221 presented the only opportunity for enacting
restraints on sex discrimination.
After considerable debate, the rule was adopted by voice vote. The House then adopted the conference report by a
355–1 vote, with Banking and Currency Committee member Thomas M. Rees (D Calif.) the sole dissenter. Rees
objected to inclusion of the class action liability limit and to extension of Regulation Q. (Vote 436, p. 134-H)
Senate
The Senate Oct. 10 adopted the conference version by voice vote without extensive debate, completing
congressional action.
Document Citation
"Banking Insurance, Credit Bill  Cleared." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal74-1224171. Originally
published in CQ Almanac 1974 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1975). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal74-
1224171 (accessed July 2, 2009).
Document ID: cqal74-1224171
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal74-1224171
© 1975, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
