7/2/09 3:28 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1225070&type=hitlist&num=10
Document Outline
Provisions
Background
Senate Committee Action
Senate Floor Action
House Committee Action
House Floor Action
Conference Action
Final Action
Features
Real Estate Settlements
An article from CQ Almanac 1974
Congress Dec. 11 cleared for the President S 3164 (PL 93 - 533 ) to revise practices dealing with the
settlement charges connected to buying or selling a home.
Key reform provisions of the bill would require mortgage lenders to give homebuyers advance notice of settlement
costs, such as real estate commissions, title insurance and attorneys' fees, which could add thousands of dollars to
the cost of a home.
The final version, drafted by House-Senate conferees, also reaffirmed the Department of Housing and Urban
Development's (HUD) authority under a 1970 law to set standards for allowable settlement charges in local areas for
homes financed through federally backed mortgages. Real estate and banking interests had pressed for repeal of
the law, which HUD had never used.
The Senate had knocked out a committee provision to repeal the law from its version of the bill, passed July 24. A
similar effort failed in the House Aug. 14, but conferees agreed with the Senate and rejected the House repeal
provision.
“I believe this represents a victory for the homebuyer and a defeat for the real estate settlement lobby which tried
so hard to repeal HUD's authority to regulate settlement charges,” William Proxmire (D Wis.), the key Senate
opponent of the repeal provision, said of the conferees' decision. He contended that the threat that HUD might use
the law discouraged excessive increases in settlement charges.
HUD officials had recommended repeal of the law, arguing that it was administratively unworkable because of wide
variations in local settlement costs. In his Oct. 8 economic address, President Ford indicated that he was concerned
by non-competitive real estate settlement fees—a reference, according to other officials, to possible price-fixing in
some real estate brokers' commissions. Ford said such practices should be pursued by the Justice Department.
Other major provisions of the bill would impose criminal penalties for kickbacks between those in the settlement
industry for very minor services. Title insurance companies, for instance, sometimes paid a kickback to attorneys
who simply referred clients to their companies. The bill also would limit the amount of advance payments for
property taxes and insurance premiums which a bank could collect from a homebuyer and hold in a non-interest-
bearing escrow account. Some banks required homebuyers to pay these costs for a year in advance.
Provisions
As cleared for the President, S 3164:
Required the HUD secretary to prepare a standard form which banks must use to disclose settlement charges.
Required the secretary to prepare and distribute booklets describing common charges and, on a demonstration basis,
describing the range of costs for specific settlement services in selected housing markets; required the secretary to
report to Congress on the demonstration. program by June 30, 1976.
Required mortgage lenders to provide the buyer and seller with an itemized disclosure of proposed settlement charges
at the time of the mortgage loan commitment, but at least 12 days prior to settlement; allowed the buyer to waive the
advance disclosure requirement; required lenders to pay buyers or sellers at least $500 if they failed to comply with the
disclosure requirement, plus court and reasonable attorney fees if court action were involved.
Barred lenders from making a loan commitment if the seller did not inform the buyer of the previous purchase price of a
house bought within the last two years and not used as a place of residence by the seller.
Outlawed kickbacks between those in the settlement industry for services not actually performed; imposed maximum
penalties of $10,000 and one-year's imprisonment for violation of the kickback prohibition.
 
7/2/09 3:28 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1225070&type=hitlist&num=10
Barred sellers from requiring, as a direct or indirect condition of sale, buyers to obtain title insurance from any particular
company.
Barred lenders from collecting and holding in escrow more than one month's worth of advance property taxes and
insurance premiums after settlement.
Barred lenders from charging homebuyers for preparation of statements required under the Truth-in-Lending Act.
Required the HUD secretary to establish a demonstration program to develop model systems for the recording of land
title information.
Required the HUD secretary to study settlement costs for at least three years and no more than five years in order to
prepare a report including recommendations as to whether the federal government should regulate settlement charges
or require lenders to pay part of settlement costs.
Required continued compliance with state settlement laws which gave consumers more protection than the new federal
act.
Background
The 1970 Emergency Home Finance Act authorized and directed HUD and the Veterans Administration (VA) to set
standards governing allowable settlement charges for real estate transactions involving Federal Housing
Administration (FHA) or VA mortgage loan guarantees. (1970 Almanac p. 277).
In 1971, HUD and VA undertook a joint study of settlement charges throughout the country. The study found that
the charges appeared unreasonably high in some areas, but not in all. Total settlement charges for FHA-VA
mortgage transactions ranged from a low of $200 to a high of $5,000 across the country, the study found.
1972 Congressional Action
In response to the study and other evidence of high charges in some areas, the Senate included provisions in its
1972 housing bill which would have extended HUD's authority to set maximum charges for transactions involving
conventional mortgages not backed by FHA or VA. The Housing Subcommittee of the House Banking and Currency
Committee approved a similar provision in its version of the 1972 housing legislation.
But then on July 4, 1972. HUD proposed maximum charges for settlement costs in six metropolitan areas. They
were Cleveland. Newark. San Francisco, Seattle, St. Louis and Washington, D.C. Title insurance companies and
other groups organized their opposition.
“It was a mistake to publish the HUD regulations before the bill was out of the full committee.” observed one
congressional aide involved with the legislation.
After the regulations were published, the full House Banking Committee voted to reverse the subcommittee's action
and adopted an amendment by Robert G. Stephens Jr. (D Ga.) to repeal HUD's maximum charge authority under the
1970 act.
Several committee Democrats labeled the reversal “an ignominious retreat in the face of fierce pressure from real
estate attorneys and the title insurance industry.” However, the House Rules Committee killed the full committee bill
and all housing legislation died at the end of the 92nd Congress. (1972 Almanac p. 628)
Changes at HUD
In early 1973, James T. Lynn succeeded George Romney as HUD secretary and the final regulations for maximum
charges in the six metropolitan areas were not issued. Romney generally had supported the maximum charge
approach. Under the new regime, HUD officials contended that federal regulation was not a desirable or workable
approach.
New Consideration
After the death of the 1972 bill. Congress began new consideration of ways to deal with high settlement costs. In the
Senate, this consideration developed into a contest between legislation (S 2288) sponsored by Proxmire to expand
HUD's rate regulation authority and S 2228, sponsored by Bill  Brock (R Tenn.), to repeal the 1970 rate regulation
authority. Both bills had reform provisions.
The real estate settlement industry continued to back the Brock bill and a companion House measure (HR 9989)
sponsored by Stephens.
Cranston Compromise
The impasse prevented the Senate Banking Committee from agreeing on settlement provisions which it could
include in its 1974 housing bill (S 3066), passed by the Senate March 11. In December 1973, the committee
tentatively approved a compromise approach offered by Alan Cranston (D Calif.) but put the issue off for later
consideration. The Cranston compromise would have kept the 1970 provision on the books but barred HUD from
using the maximum charge authority for three years. (S 3066, this chapter)
Other Approaches
In January 1974, the House Banking Subcommittee on Housing held hearings on the settlement issue and some
7/2/09 3:28 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1225070&type=hitlist&num=10
In January 1974, the House Banking Subcommittee on Housing held hearings on the settlement issue and some
consumer spokesmen favored an alternative to federal rate regulation. They suggested that lending institutions
should pay some or all of a buyer's closing costs.
Rep. Leonor K. Sullivan (D Mo.) had proposed this approach in legislation (HR 12066) introduced in December 1973.
After the House hearings. Proxmire introduced a similar measure (S 3232) in the Senate.
Senate Committee Action
But on May 2, the Senate committee met to consider the Brock bill. It defeated all attempts by Proxmire and others
to alter or delete the repeal provision in S 3164.
By a 3–9 vote, the committee rejected Proxmire's amendment to delete the repeal provision. Then by the same
vote, it rejected the Cranston compromise. Cranston himselt opposed the compromise, an aide said, because he
thought the committee would kill the bill it the repeal provision were eliminated.
The committee also rejected an amendment by William D. Hathaway (D Maine) which would have allowed
homebuyers with FHA or VA mortgages to obtain settlement services directly from HUD or the VA. It turned aside
another amendment, proposed by J. Bennett Johnston Jr. (D La.), which would have allowed HUD to set maximum
charges for title search and insurance fees, but not other closing costs.
The committee reported the bill by an 11–2 vote, with Proxmire and Hathaway opposed.
Lobbying
The strength of the real estate settlement lobby overpowered consumer groups who were notified at the last minute
of Senate hearings on the settlement bills, Proxmire charged.
“It was an unequal contest,” said an aide to Proxmire. The consumer groups “can't cover the whole waterfront,” he
added, and were concentrating on other bills.
Those favoring the Brock bill also took advantage of disagreements among consumer spokesmen over whether the
lender-pay or federal regulation approach was best. “Witnesses didn't come before the committee and say rate
regulation would work,” argued an aide to Brock. He noted that some consumer witnesses had told the House
subcommittee that it would not.
Proxmire traced the strategy behind the Brock bill to the Washington law firm of Sharon, Pierson, Semmes, Crolius
and Finley. The basic strategy, he said, was to sneak the repeal provision into a bill highlighting other reforms least
opposed by the settlement industry. The repeal provision was discussed during House and Senate hearings on the
legislation, however.
The Sharon firm registered to lobby for 17 major title insurance companies on Aug. 4, 1972—after the HUD
regulations were proposed, but before the House Banking Committee's action on the 1972 housing bill. Four other
title companies also retained the firm as a lobbyist in September 1972 and January 1973. (1972 Almanac p. 1112,
1118; 1973 Almanac p. 1110)
While the law firm probably was influential, spokesmen for consumer organizations said they did not underrate the
persuasive efforts of banks and attorneys who would be affected by rate regulation.
An aide to Brock also downplayed the role of the Sharon firm. Title companies came to committee members as
constituents with legitimate problems, he said.
Senate Committee Action
The Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee May 22 reported S 3164 (S Rept 93 –866), to
revise practices dealing with the settlement charges connected to buying or selling a home.
The reform provisions of the bill would require institutions making mortgage loans to use a standard form to detail
each settlement charge. Unless a homebuyer waived the requirement, the bank would have to disclose these
charges at least 10 days before the buyer had to pay them. HUD would be required to issue information booklets
describing common settlement charges. (Common charges, box, this page)
Another major provision of the bill would prohibit those in the real estate settlement business from paying kickbacks
to each other for unearned services. Common kickbacks, legal in some states, included fees paid by a title
insurance company to an attorney for referral of his clients to that company for title search services.
S 3164 also would limit the amount a bank could collect from a buyer at the time of settlement and hold in an
“escrow” account for payment of future property taxes and mortgage or fire insurance premiums. Some banks
required buyers to prepay taxes and premiums for as long as six months to two years ahead of their due date: S
3164 generally would limit prepaid amounts to one month's worth of taxes and premiums.
The HUD secretary also would be authorized to establish demonstration programs using computers to keep track of
land title transfers. Title records, confused in many parts of the country, were examined to make sure there were no
outstanding claims on the property.
The bill also repealed the 1970 law allowing HUD to set maximum settlement charges for homes financed with
federally-backed mortgages.
In the report on S 3164, both the committee majority and Proxmire advanced detailed reasons why the 1970
authority should or should not be repealed.
7/2/09 3:28 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1225070&type=hitlist&num=10
Majority Views
The committee majority argued that provisions of the bill requiring greater disclosure of settlement costs, prohibiting
kickbacks and limiting property tax escrow accounts attacked settlement cost problems more directly than would
federal rate regulation.
If HUD found after three years that these provisions were not adequate, the report argued, it could propose new
regulatory legislation. In the interim, the rate regulation approach should be studied further, the committee added.
The report also pointed out that state and local governments historically had dealt with rates for settlement charges.
If HUD took over the task, the committee argued, it would need a large bureaucracy to administer a rate regulation
program fairly.
An aide to Brock also said that the senator felt the 1970 provision was “legally defective” because it did not closely
define HUD's authority or provide mechanisms safeguarding regulated businesses right to due process if they were
deprived of property.
“Senator Brock's fear,” the aide said, “is that if the law is left on the books and there were a change at HUD, they
(the new officials) would say ‘ah, we've got a law’ and start using it.” Any attempt to use the law, he added, would
result in a lawsuit based on constitutional due process grounds. A lengthy lawsuit would not help anyone, the aide
argued.
Brock's aide also said that rate regulation would be too complex a task for HUD. “It's just a ship that won't fly,” he
argued.
The aide also questioned whether the fact that the 1970 law remained on the books influenced what fees those in
the settlement business felt they could charge.
Proxmire Rebuttal
Proxmire argued in additional views that the reform provisions of S 3164 were not enough. “It is unrealistic to
assume that consumers will suddenly begin shopping for settlement services.” he said. The average person buys a
home only once or twice in his life, Proxmire said, and when he does, “he is a captive customer in the hands of the
lender, the real estate agent or the attorney.”
While supporting the prohibition on kickbacks, Proxmire argued that the bill did not ensure that title companies freed
from paying kickbacks would reduce charges accordingly. And lawyers always could raise their fees to cover
reduced kickback income, he pointed out.
Proxmire also argued that it was a “serious mistake” to repeal the 1970 law because, even if unused, it was a
deterrent to further increases in settlement charges. Repeal would signal the settlement industry that the federal
government did not care about excessive fees, he said, and settlement charges would reach “record highs.”
The strength of the opposition to federal rate regulation would make it “most difficult” to reinstate the 1970 law later,
he added.
While acknowledging some arguments against federal rate regulation, Proxmire said the committee had not held in-
depth hearings to explore whether they were valid. Although regulation of real estate settlement charges might be
complicated, he added, “the problem does not seem incapable of administrative solution.”
“…The so-called benefits of the Brock bill are marginal and largely cosmetic,” Proxmire concluded, “while the
potential cost to consumers arising from the repeal of HUD's regulatory authority is enormous.”
Senate Floor Action
The Senate July 24 passed S 3164 by voice vote. Before passing the bill, the Senate July 23 had knocked out the
controversial committee provision which would have repealed the 1970 law allowing HUD to set maximum
settlement charges for homes financed with federally guaranteed mortgages.
The Senate debated S 3164 intermittently on three days.
July 16 Debate
Brock presented the bill to the Senate July 16 as a “truly pioneering piece of consumer legislation,” a
characterization attacked immediately by Proxmire. Major consumer groups opposed the legislation, Proxmire
stressed, because of the repeal provision.
Argument over the repeal provision amounted to “jousting at windmills,” Brock insisted, because the 1970 law was
“absolute window dressing.” Why fight to keep a law which was not being used and that HUD had no plans to use,
he asked.
If there was no reason to worry about the law, countered Proxmire, “Why is the senator from Tennessee, why is this
whole group of people who benefit from settlement costs, so terribly anxious to knock it out? Why are they afraid of
it, if it is not going to be implemented and not going to hurt them?” The settlement industry must be afraid that some
future HUD secretary would use the law, he concluded.
But HUD could not use the existing law anyway, Brock argued, because it did not spell out procedures
safeguarding the rights of industry. Would Brock agree to keep the 1970 law if those procedures were written into
the bill, asked William D. Hathaway (D Maine).
7/2/09 3:28 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1225070&type=hitlist&num=10
No, he would not, responded Brock, because the safeguard provisions could not be written on the Senate floor or
even quickly in committee. Brock also insisted that the real estate settlement industry was highly competitive and so
should not be regulated.
Use of the 1970 law would be like saying “We are going to regulate you because we do not like you,” Brock
charged. “We are going to regulate you because there have been some abuses, because there have been some fly-
by-nights, some idiots, some ne'er-do-wells, people in the industry who have abused public confidence, and…we
are going to hit the whole industry with a meat axe.” Regulation, he argued, would assume the “total incompetence
of the American people” and the “evil intent” of the settlement industry.
Americans had a great deal of common sense, Proxmire countered, but they did not have the expertise to deal
competently with settlement experts. The experts dealt with closing charges every day, he argued, while consumers
might buy a home only once in a lifetime.
Brock rebuffed a suggestion by Hathaway that Congress should leave the 1970 law on the books while HUD studied
settlement costs for two years instead of the three to five years required under S 3164.
“The senator wants me to leave a sword of Damocles hanging over the head of the industry,” Brock argued, “which
will skew their rates and use the same time period during which the sword is hanging in which to study its rates.”
He asserted that the study would turn up better results if the rates were allowed to respond to market conditions.
Brock also argued that industry might raise its rates if it anticipated regulation because the law was not repealed.
Proxmire insisted that retention of the 1970 law would tend to keep rates lower. If industry charged too much during
the study period, he said, HUD would be more likely to recommend regulation.
July 23 Debate
Proxmire and Brock continued their debate July 23. Proxmire argued that the reform provisions of the bill were
meaningless without a statutory deterrent against higher settlement charges. HUD planned to implement most of the
reforms by regulation anyway, he noted.
Proxmire also contended that controls on settlement charges were needed most in 1974 when mortgage credit
conditions had forced increases in required down payments and monthly mortgage payments. A high settlement cost
bill, he said, could spell the difference between a person's being able or unable to buy a house. If settlement
charges were limited, Proxmire estimated, consumers could save a total of $1.5-billion a year.
Brock dismissed this estimate as “absolutely ridiculous” because the 1970 law did not cover the most expensive
settlement charges such as real estate commissions and prepaid property taxes. “Thus, we ought to be very clear
that all we are talking about, at best, is regulating a very small portion of total settlement charges,” he said.
Brock also argued that the 1970 law did not allow HUD to regulate rates, but only to “prescribe standards” for them.
The legislative history of the law, he said, made it clear that HUD had no authority to reduce or standardize rates.
John Sparkman (D Ala.), banking committee chairman and original sponsor of the 1970 law, agreed that rate
regulation was not the legislative intent of the law.
In any case, Brock concluded, it would be unfair to regulate the small firms and individuals in the settlement industry
like large companies with extensive legal and accounting staffs. “It would place an intolerable burden on these
people to require cost justification for their services,” he contended.
The Senate rejected Brock's arguments, voting 55–37 to adopt the Proxmire amendment eliminating the repeal
provisions. Three banking committee members who had voted against an identical Proxmire amendment in
committee switched their positions on the floor. They were J. Bennett Johnston Jr. (D La.), Adlai E. Stevenson III (D Ill.)
and Lowell P. Weicker Jr. (R Conn.). (Vote 311, p. 49-S)
Thirty-four of the 37 senators opposing the Proxmire amendment were Republicans or southern Democrats. Alan
Cranston (D Calif.), Harrison A. Williams Jr. (D N.J.)—both banking committee members—and Alan Bible (D Nev.) were
the only northern Democrats to oppose the amendment.
July 24 Action
Brock agreed to a number of minor changes in the bill on July 24. Brock urged approval of the bill, despite adoption
of the Proxmire amendment. “With or without that amendment,” he said, “this bill is necessary and is needed in
law.”
The Senate adopted en bloc several amendments by Hathaway by voice vote. They would require the HUD
secretary, where practical, to mention average regional settlement charges in new booklets describing common
settlement costs, and require lending institutions to disclose settlement charges 15 days before the actual settlement
date instead of 10 days before, as required under the committee bill.
Before passing the bill by voice vote, the Senate also adopted by voice vote an amendment by Quentin N. Burdick (D
N.D.) stipulating that any lawsuits needed to enforce provisions of the bill should be brought in state, not federal,
courts.
Provisions
As passed by the Senate, S 3164:
Required the HUD secretary to prepare a standard form which banks must use to disclose settlement charges; required
the secretary to prepare and distribute information booklets for homebuyers describing settlement charges and, where
practical, average regional charges.
7/2/09 3:28 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1225070&type=hitlist&num=10
Required mortgage lenders to provide the buyer and seller with an itemized disclosure of settlement charges at least 15
days before the settlement date; allowed the buyer to waive the advance disclosure requirement; required lenders to
pay a buyer at least $500 if they failed to comply with the disclosure requirement, plus court and legal fees if the buyer
took the case to court for enforcement.
Outlawed kickbacks between those in the settlement industry for services not actually performed; imposed penalties of
up to $10,000 and one year's imprisonment for violation of the kickback prohibition.
Barred lenders from collecting and holding in escrow more than one month's worth of advance property taxes and
insurance premiums after settlement.
Required the secretary to establish a demonstration program to develop model systems for the recording of land title
information.
Required the secretary to study real estate settlement charges for at least three years and no more than five years after
enactment, and to make a report including a recommendation as to whether the federal government should regulate
settlement charges or require lenders to pay part of settlement costs.
Barred lenders from charging homebuyers for preparation of statements required under the Truth-in-Lending Act.
House Committee Action
The House Banking and Currency Committee July 9 reported a companion version of S 3164 (HR 9989—H Rept 
93 –1177) to revise practices dealing with settlement charges.
Like the Senate committee, the House committee voted to repeal the 1970 law on settlement charges. HR 9989 also
made a number of reforms in basic practices dealing with settlement charges which were generally similar to those
of the Senate bill.
The House committee bill differed from the Senate bill in three major ways:
It required lending institutions to disclose settlement charges at the time of the mortgage loan commitment instead of 10
days before the actual settlement date.
It would bar lending institutions from making a loan commitment if the seller did not inform the buyer of the previous
selling price of a home purchased within the last two years and not used as a place of residence by the seller. This
provision, not included in the Senate bill,  was directed at real estate speculators.
It would bar a seller from requiring as a condition of sale that the buyer purchase title insurance from any particular
company.
House Committee Consideration
The House committee met June 25 to mark up HR 9989, sponsored by Robert G. Stephens Jr. (D Ga.). As
introduced, the bill contained the repeal provision and had the general backing of the settlement industry.
The full committee rebuffed an effort to kill the repeal provision. William A. Barrett (D Pa.), chairman of the housing
subcommittee, proposed to delete the provision. But Stephens offered a substitute for the Barrett amendment which
changed some of the requirements for the HUD secretary's report on the need for further legislation and made a
minor technical change in the repeal provision.
By a key 18–12 vote, the committee adopted the Stephens substitute, making it clear that a majority probably would
vote down an attempt to eliminate the repeal provision. Chairman Wright Patman (D Texas) and other senior
Democrats opposed the Stephens amendment, but Stephens won the support of most Republicans.
After adoption of the Stephens amendment, the committee approved the bill by voice vote.
Committee Views
The committee decided to regulate the “underlying business relationships and procedures” governing settlement
costs rather than regulating those costs directly, the report explained. This was the better approach, the committee
majority said, because “any attempts to develop a system of rate regulation in this area would be unwise and
unworkable.”
To back up its decision, the committee cited testimony from HUD officials supporting repeal of the 1970 law
because it would be impossible or at least very costly to implement. The committee also noted that consumer
witnesses had suggested that rate regulation might not work.
“Federal rate controls are warranted only if there are clear and convincing findings that settlement charges are
unreasonably high on a widespread basis throughout the nation and there is no other more practical way to deal
with the problem,” the committee concluded. Evidence to date did not support any of these conclusions, the report
said.
Other Views
A number of committee members filed supplemental or separate views condemning inclusion of the repeal provision
in the bill.
7/2/09 3:28 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1225070&type=hitlist&num=10
Eight Democrats led by Patman called the bill an “anticonsumer, anti-residential real estate reform bill” which would
“shield the very people responsible for widespread, abusive and fraudulent real estate settlement practices which
needlessly drain homebuyers and homesellers of hundreds of millions of dollars.” The other Democrats were Barrett,
Leonor K. Sullivan (Mo.), Thomas L. Ashley (Ohio), Edward I. Koch (N.Y.), Parren J. Mitchell (Md.), Del. Water E. Fauntroy
(D.C.) and Fortney H. (Pete) Stark Jr. (Calif.).
Even though the law had not been used, they argued, it had motivated a number of state legislatures to approve
their own settlement reform legislation. Repeal would erase any incentive for state and local action, they asserted.
If the existing law were used, the Democrats estimated that it would save homebuyers at least $57-million a year as
well as establish standards which could influence settlement charges for homes not financed with federally backed
mortgages.
They also disputed arguments that HUD could not implement the 1970 law. “The fact that HUD's authority to
regulate maximum settlement charges has never been used reflects political pressure exerted on the administration
by the settlement industry,” they insisted, “rather than any inability on the part of HUD to act.”
House Floor Action
The House Aug. 14 passed HR 9989 by a 399–2 recorded vote. (Vote 354, p. 110-H) It then substituted its text for
the language of S 3164 and passed S 3164 by voice vote.
Before passage, by a key 199–202 vote the House narrowly rejected an effort to knock out the repeal of HUD's
authority to set maximum closing costs for homes backed by federal mortgage guarantees.
Floor debate focused entirely on the repeal provision, with a multitude of arguments offered for and against it.
Robert G. Stephens Jr. (D Ga.) led defense of repeal. He argued at the outset that the 1970 law did not give HUD the
authority to set rates, suggesting that legislative intent had been twisted during consideration of HR 9989. Even if
there were argument over the thrust of the law, he added, “what has not been disputed is that any attempt to
develop a system of federal rate regulation in this area would be unworkable.”
Stephens also insisted that any authority to regulate real estate transactions rested with state and local
governments. “Let us not…inject the federal government into ratemaking in professions and businesses, an area
which has always been the prerogative of local areas,” he urged the House.
But Leonor K. Sullivan (D Mo.), a key banking committee opponent of repeal, contended that the reform provisions of
the bill were meaningless if the 1970 law were repealed. “The settlement industry knows that without regulation of
settlement costs,” she said, “all the other provisions of the bill are weak—so weak that they probably will be largely
ineffective…. The truth of the matter is that without the means to regulate, there are no teeth in this legislation.”
Giving consumers a chance to learn more about settlement costs did not mean that excessive charges would be
curbed, she pointed out. “All we are doing with HR 9989…,” she argued, “is to provide homebuyers and
homeowners with the means to be well informed of the fact that they are being ripped off.”
Margaret M. Heckler (R Mass.), another banking committee member, pointed out also that the 1970 law did not
authorize a nationwide regulation program for every locality. The authority, if used, would only apply to areas where
charges were excessive, she argued.
Stark Amendment
Fortney H. (Pete) Stark (D Calif.) offered the amendment to kill the repeal provision. Stark warned his colleagues
that they would have to explain why they had voted against the amendment if closing costs began to increase as
much as mortgage interest rates. He also predicted that it would take a long time to restore the authority if it were
repealed.
Stephens and Garry Brown (R Mich.) countered that it was better to make initial reforms and carry out the HUD study
of charges required by the bill before instituting large-scale regulation. “There is no way we can pole vault from
where the law is to where some people would like to have it be,” Brown contended.
Retention of the 1970 law merely would allow the HUD secretary to act quickly if his study found abuses, Stark
responded. But Stephens insisted again that the 1970 law and HR 9989 did not give the secretary “wage and price
control in the legal profession.”
“I am sympathetic to the gentleman's concern for the relief of lawyers in this country…,” Stark said, “but I am far
more constrained to be concerned for the poor and moderate-income people who do not have housing.” A vote for
the amendment was a vote for consumers, he concluded, and “a vote against it is to help those poor and struggling
title insurance companies and banks…, to help the lawyers whose fees are high enough.”
Stephens ended his arguments by stating again that settlement costs governed by local customs could not be
regulated from Washington. Even though he was insistent that the 1970 law did not allow such regulation, Stephens
said the law should be repealed before some future administration seized it as authority to do so.
The conservative coalition, made up of a majority of voting Republicans and southern Democrats, formed to defeat
the amendment on the key 199–202 vote. Opposed to repeal were 54 Republicans, 126 northern Democrats and 19
southern Democrats. Backing the repeal provision and opposing the Stark amendment were 123 Republicans, 27
northern Democrats and 52 southern Democrats. (Vote 351, p. 110-H)
Other Motions, Amendments
7/2/09 3:28 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1225070&type=hitlist&num=10
Immediately after the key vote on the Stark amendment, the House voted 274–121 to formally adopt the committee
amendment to repeal the law. Sixty-four of 71 voting southern Democrats and 153 of 173 Republicans supported
the amendment. (Vote 352, p. 110-H)
Stewart B. McKinney (R Conn.), who opposed the repeal provision, made one final attempt to prevent House approval
of the provision, but ran into a parliamentary predicament. He offered a motion to recommit the bill, but neglected to
include instructions dealing with the repeal provision in his motion. Realizing his mistake, he asked immediately if he
could amend the motion.
The speaker pointed out that McKinney could amend the motion only if an earlier motion by Stephens ordering the
previous question (ending debate and possibility for amendment) on the recommittal motion were rejected. But the
House agreed to the Stephens motion by a 237–160 vote and then rejected the straight recommittal motion by a
voice vote. (Vote 353, p. 110-H)
Before final passage, the House by voice vote adopted art amendment by Sullivan which would make it clear that
the bill would allow states to impose any additional requirements on real estate transactions.
Provisions
As passed by the House, HR 9989:
Required the HUD secretary to prepare a standard form which banks must use to disclose settlement charges; required
the secretary to prepare and distribute information booklets for homebuyers describing settlement charges.
Required mortgage lenders to provide the buyer and seller with an itemized disclosure of settlement charges at the time
of the mortgage loan commitment; allowed the buyer to waive the advance disclosure requirement; required lenders to
pay a buyer at least $500 if they failed to comply with the disclosure requirement, plus court and legal fees if the buyer
took the case to court for enforcement.
Outlalaw kickbacks between those in the settlement industry for services not actually performed; imposed penalties of
up to $10,000 and one year's imprisonment for violation of the kickback prohibition.
Barred lenders from collecting and holding in escrow more than one month's worth of advance property taxes and
insurance premiums after settlement.
Barred lenders from making a loan commitment if the seller did not inform the buyer of the previous selling price of a
house purchased within the last two years not used as a place of residence by the seller.
Barred lenders from charging homebuyers for preparation of statements required under the Truth-in-Lending Act.
Barred sellers from requiring, as a condition of sale, buyers to obtain title insurance from any specific company.
Required the HUD secretary to establish a demonstration program to develop model systems for the recording of land
title information.
Required the secretary to study settlement costs for at least two years and no more than five years in order to prepare a
report including recommendations as to whether the federal government should regulate settlement charges or require
lenders to pay part of settlement costs.
Repealed a provision (Section 701) of the 1970 Emergency Home Finance Act authorizing HUD to prescribe allowable
closing costs connected to the purchase of homes backed by Federal Housing Administration or Veterans
Administration mortgage guarantees.
Required the Federal Reserve Board to study the feasibility of paying interest on escrow accounts holding advance
payments of property taxes and insurance premiums and to report to Congress with recommendations by June 30,
1975.
Conference Action
In their report (H Rept 93–1526) filed Dec. 9, conferees recognized that HUD was not using its authority to set
settlement charges under the 1970 act, but argued that keeping the law on the books was important in itself.
“…It is agreed that continuation of this standby authority is desirable for its deterrent effect,” conferees said, “and
can, in fact, facilitate the achievement of the purposes” of the bill. At the same time, conferees made it clear that
the secretary could use the authority any time “he finds it necessary to curb abuses in specific market areas.”
Information on Charges
Conferees modified a Senate-passed provision which would have required the HUD secretary to include, where
practical, average settlement costs for particular services in information booklets for homebuyers. The House bill
had no similar provision.
The conference version would require the secretary to include such information on a demonstration basis in a few
housing markets and report to Congress by 1976.
Advance Disclosure
Conferees combined provisions of the two bills setting requirements for advance disclosure of settlement charges.
7/2/09 3:28 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 9 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1225070&type=hitlist&num=10
Conferees combined provisions of the two bills setting requirements for advance disclosure of settlement charges.
The House version would have required mortgage lenders to reveal these charges at the time of the loan
commitment; the Senate bill would have required disclosure at least 15 days before settlement.
As a compromise, conferees decided to require disclosure at the time of the loan commitment, but in no case less
than 12 days before settlement. Conferees agreed that disclosure might not be practical at the time of a loan
commitment if a year then elapsed before the settlement. In general, they suggested that disclosure could be made
within 60 to 90 days of settlement.
Other Provisions
Conferees retained two House-passed provisions not included in the Senate version. They would prevent sellers
from requiring buyers to obtain title insurance from any particular company and require sellers to reveal to buyers
the previous purchase price of a house bought within the past two years and not used as a residence by the seller.
The provision was aimed at speculators.
Another House provision was dropped. It would have required the Federal Reserve Board to study whether lending
institutions should pay interest on escrow accounts holding advance payments of taxes and insurance.
Final Action
Senate
Both Proxmire and Bill  Brock (R Tenn.), who led the Senate drive for repeal of the 1970 law, expressed support for
the conference version before it was approved by the Senate Dec. 9 by voice vote. But they continued to differ over
the scope of HUD's authority under the 1970 law and the desirability of using it.
Proxmire contended that HUD had the authority to set maximum charges for settlement costs in specific areas.
Brock, however, insisted that the authority did not authorize federal rate regulation.
House
The House adopted the conference report Dec. 11 by voice vote, completing congressional action.
Robert G. Stephens Jr. (D Ga.), who led efforts in the House to repeal the 1970 law, emphasized that conferees had
not given even tacit approval to the idea that the law gave HUD authority to regulate settlement rates. Opponents of
repeal, including Fortney H. (Pete) Stark (D Calif.), continued to dispute Stephens' interpretation.
Features
Common Settlement Charges
Buyers and sellers of homes generally must pay some of the following standard charges to “settle” the actual
transfer of a property to a new owner:
Title search or examination fee: a fee paid for examination of the history of transfers of the property title to ensure
that there are no outstanding claims to the property: paid by the buyer. [1]
Title insurance: insurance to protect the lending institution (which is financing the mortgage) or the new owner
against the cost of outstanding claims to the property: paid by the buyer. [1]
Field survey: a survey to establish the exact boundaries of a property: paid by the buyer.
Loan origination fees: fees (generally up to 1 per cent of the mortgage loan principal) charged by a lending
institution to “originate” a mortgage loan: paid by the buyer.
Other closing charges: charges including attorneys' fees for preparation of documents and other services, charges
for appraisal of a property's value, credit report fees, pest inspection costs and other costs: generally paid by the
buyer.
Realtor sales commission: sales commission (usually between 5 and 7 per cent of the property's sale price) to a
real estate agent: paid by the seller.
Discount point payments: payments required by the lending institution to make up the difference between the
going market mortgage interest rate and a lower maximum interest rate for a federally backed mortgage (each
“point” equals 1 per cent of the sale price); generally paid by the seller, but passed on to the buyer through a higher
sale price.
Statutory charges: charges required by law for recording of deeds or for state and local property transfer taxes;
paid by the buyer.
Prepaid items: prepayment of charges for property taxes, fire or mortgage insurance, and mortgage interest costs
between the closing date and the date of the first required mortgage payment (lending institutions usually hold these
prepaid amounts in an “escrow” account not paying interest): paid by the buyer.
Notes
[1] In the western half of the United States these charges and others may be paid by the seller.
7/2/09 3:28 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 10 of 10http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1225070&type=hitlist&num=10
Document Citation
"Real Estate Settlements." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal74-1225070. Originally published in
CQ Almanac 1974 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1975). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal74-1225070
(accessed July 2, 2009).
Document ID: cqal74-1225070
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal74-1225070
© 1975, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
