7/2/09 3:27 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 5http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224204&type=hitlist&num=6
Banking
1998 Congress Clears Legislation
Allowing Credit Unions To Expand
Membership
1995 House Shelves Banking Overhaul
1994 Other Banking Legislation
Considered in 1994
1994 Community Development Banking
Provisions
1994 Banking Law Undergoes Revision
1991 Congress Clears Slimmed-Down
Banking Bill
1991 Banking Nominations
1988 Caught in Turf Battle, Bank
Powers Bill Dies
1986 Major Banking Legislation Stalls
in Last Hours
1985 Banking Bills Fail to Reach House
Floor
1979 Banking Deregulation
1978 Electronic Banking Services
1978 Banking Regulation
1976 Banking Changes Blocked
1975 Senate Approves Broader Banking
Powers
1974 Citicorp Notes
1974 Banking Insurance, Credit Bill
Cleared
1970 Regulation Extended to One-
Bank Holding Companies
1969 Bank Holding Companies
1967 Truth-In-Lending Bill Passed by
Senate
1966 Bank Supervision
1966 Bank Holding Company Act
Exemptions Changed
1965 Bank Investigation
1957 Banking Revision
1955 Bank Companies
Antitrust
Federal Reserve
Savings and Loan Industry
Stock Market and Financial Services
Citicorp Notes
An article from CQ Almanac 1974
Document Outline
Provisions
Background
House Action
Senate Action
Conference Action
Congress Oct. 11 cleared S 3838 (PL 93 - 501 ), giving federal bank
regulatory agencies authority over variable interest rate securities sold by
bank holding companies.
As cleared, the bill would give the Federal Reserve Board and other federal
banking agencies power to control innovative types of securities that could
compete with funds-starved savings and loan associations for investments by
small-scale savers.
Although that danger did not materialize, Congress enacted the measure in
response to the sale of variable interest rate notes that were first offered in
June by Citicorp, the parent holding company of the First National City Bank
of New York (Citibank). Because the notes were sold in relatively small
denominations and carried interest rates pegged to U.S. Treasury bills, they
were considered attractive to average investors who otherwise would keep
their money in savings accounts subject to comparatively low federally
imposed interest rate ceilings.
Some members of Congress were concerned that the Citicorp notes and
similar offerings by other corporations would draw substantial amounts of
funds from the thrift institutions that support the nation's housing markets. But
the Federal Reserve Board contended that it could not regulate the Citicorp
notes because the proceeds would not be passed through directly to the
subsidiary bank.
S 3838 accordingly gave the Federal Reserve power to regulate such
offerings by bank holding companies, regardless of how the funds were used.
It conferred similar authority on the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board.
In its final version, the measure also included Senate amendments that would
temporarily override state usury laws that restricted interest paid by banks in
Tennessee, Arkansas, Montana and California. The Senate Sept. 25 had
passed those provisions as separate legislation (S 3817).
Provisions
As signed into law, S 3838:
Gave the Federal Reserve Board, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and Federal Home Loan Bank Board authority
to regulate debt obligations issued by parent holding companies of financial institutions under their jurisdiction,
regardless of how the funds raised by selling the obligations were used.
Exempted from regulation obligations issued by a bank holding company that had irrevocably declared to federal
regulatory agencies its intention to divest itself of its banking subsidiary.
Exempted from federal banking agency regulation debt obligations sold by a bank holding company or its non-bank
subsidiary in large denominations chiefly to institutional investors.
 
7/2/09 3:27 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 5http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224204&type=hitlist&num=6
Allowed all national banks, federally regulated state banks and savings and loan associations and small business
investment companies in making loans of $25,000 or more to business or agriculture before July 1, 1977, to charge
interest rates up to 5 per cent higher than the Federal Reserve System's discount rate. (By allowing interest of up to 13
per cent on such loans, the provision in effect bypassed state usury laws in Tennessee, Arkansas and Montana that
limited interest on business and agriculture loans to 10 per cent.)
Exempted until  July 1, 1977, variable interest rate notes issued by California bank holding companies from the state
constitution's 10 per cent interest rate limit.
Exempted certificates of deposits of $100,000 or more in California banks from the state constitution's 10 per cent
interest rate limit until  July 1, 1977.
Background
S 3838 and the House version (HR 15928) were aimed” at a new type of investment security pioneered in June by
Citicorp.
Seeking to attract funds from small investors who were dissatisfied with the interest they could earn from savings
accounts, Citicorp proposed to issue “floating interest rate notes” starting at $5,000 that could be cashed in at six-
month intervals. After an initial rate of 9.7 per cent, the interest earned by the notes would be pegged to 1 per cent
more than the average rate paid by the U.S. Treasury on its three-month bills sold to the public.
With savings and loan institutions prohibited by federal regulations from paying more than 6 per cent interest on
savings accounts, the Citicorp notes offered an attractive alternative investment for persons who had savings of
$5,000 or more. Since the notes could be redeemed on the six-month interest payment dates, investors who bought
them also would not be tying up their savings for prohibitively long periods.
After Citicorp announced its offering—and as other companies made similar plans—members of Congress and
housing industry officials expressed concern that their availability would worsen the plight of savings and loan
associations. Thrift institutions already were plagued by disintermediation—the process of losing to other
investments the savings that provide the funds used to make mortgage loans.
Some members, notably Banking and Currency Committee Chairman Wright Patman (D Texas), charged that variable
interest notes were an attempt by bank holding companies to circumvent Regulation Q, the federal rule that puts
limits on interest paid by banks and thrift institutions.
1969 Law
In a 1969 credit control measure (PL 91-151), Congress gave the Federal Reserve authority to apply its regulations
to obligations issued by a bank holding company, but only to the extent that proceeds from their sale went to the
company's affiliated bank. (1969 Almanac p. 925)
In the case of Citicorp notes, the Federal Reserve determined that it had no grounds for objecting to their issue or
for limiting the interest rates.
Although legislation was introduced to mandate limits on the variable interest notes, the measures passed by the
House and Senate simply clarified existing law by providing specific power to regulate such obligations issued by
bank holding companies. Neither bill gave power to regulate similar notes sold by other types of corporations,
however.
After the initial furor in June, Citicorp moved to meet some concerns voiced by the Federal Reserve by reducing the
total offering to $650-million from $850-million and by requiring that the notes be held at least until June 1, 1976.
Subsequent offerings of similar notes by other companies had not been as widespread as first anticipated.
House Action
Committee
In reporting HR 15928 (H Rept 93 –1259) on Aug. 5, the House Banking and Currency Committee made clear
its concern that variable interest note offerings could add further strains on funds-starved thrift institutions.
When Citicorp announced its “floating interest rate notes” in June, “it was immediately recognized that the issuance
of such notes by a company which is so closely identified…with one of the largest banking institutions of the
nation…could cause severe disintermediation and would undoubtedly set a pattern for similar issuances by like
institutions,” the committee said. “That fear has been substantiated.”
HR 15928 “would remove any uncertainty about the authority” of federal bank regulatory agencies to regulate notes,
debentures or other debt obligations issued by a bank holding company, “regardless of the use of the proceeds
within the holding company.”
While the bill did not require any action by the regulatory agencies, the committee stated that in using the power
conferred by HR 15928 “the agencies should seek first and foremost to assure that any potentially destructive
7/2/09 3:27 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 5http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224204&type=hitlist&num=6
conferred by HR 15928 “the agencies should seek first and foremost to assure that any potentially destructive
competition between thrift institutions' deposits and bank holding company note issues aimed at the general public is
ameliorated.”
Supplemental Views
Three committee members filed supplemental statements to the report. For different reasons, all three expressed
doubt that the bill would accomplish its purpose.
John H. Rousselot (R Calif.) suggested that the measure “might be counter-productive.” While conferring authority to
regulate bond issues by holding companies that were affiliated with banking institutions—and whose borrowings
could he used in mortgage lending activities by those institutions—the bill made no provision for regulating similar
bond issues by corporations that had no links to the banking industry, Rousselot pointed out.
That being the case, Rousselot went on, the bill allowed limits “on issues which might devote some or all of the
funds raised to the making of mortgages while doing nothing to limit competition for savings funds from other
quarters.”
James M. Hanley (D N. Y.) argued that HE 15928 would accomplish nothing because the Federal Reserve Board had
made clear it would not act promptly to regulate variable interest bond issues by bank holding companies. Because
such issues “violate the letter and spirit” of federal banking regulations, Hanley said, “if the board will not outlaw the
practice, the Congress should.”
Edward I. Koch (D N.Y.), on the other hand, opposed the bill as discriminatory against small investors. By allowing
federal officials to limit interest on issues such as the Citicorp notes, Koch contended, the bill would “reinforce a
policy which forces small savers to subsidize mortgage borrowers, big and small, by curtailing their investment
opportunities.”
The House Sept. 11 passed the bill by a 317–5 vote. (Vote 382, p. 118-H)
Floor Action
In brief floor action on HR 15928, the House made no changes in the committee's recommendations, rejecting the
only amendment that was offered.
By voice vote, the House defeated an amendment by James V. Stanton (D Ohio) that would have deleted provisions
giving the Federal Home Loan Bank Board power to regulate notes issued by holding companies affiliated with
savings and loan associations, which were under the board's jurisdiction.
On passage, the five votes against HR 15928 were cast by Koch, Bella S. Abzug (D N.Y.), John Conyers Jr. (D Mich.),
Robert McClory (R Ill.) and Ogden R. Reid (D N.Y.). After passing HR 15982, the House by voice vote substituted its
provisions for the Senate bill and passed S 3838 as amended.
Senate Action
Committee
The Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee Aug. 21 reported S 3838 (S Rept 93 –1120),
combining provisions similar to those of HR 15928 with two other measures making changes in federal banking
laws.
One provision, first approved by the committee Aug. 8 as separate legislation (S 1933), would permit federally
regulated banks to underwrite and deal in revenue bonds issued by state and local governments.
The other, originally approved Aug. 8 as S 3817, would bypass usury laws in Tennessee, Arkansas and Montana by
permitting national banks and federally insured thrift institutions to charge more than 10 per cent interest on
business and agriculture loans.
Revenue Bonds
As amended by the committee, S 3838 would end after another 18 months a 40-year ban against commercial bank
dealing in state and local bonds that were secured by revenues earned by providing essential public services.
By allowing banks to underwrite (guarantee sale of) revenue bond issues, the committee argued, the measure would
expand state and local government access to financial markets and reduce borrowing costs.
In separating commercial from investment banking in the Glass-Steagall Act of 1933, Congress prohibited
commercial banks to underwrite and deal in investment securities issued by private corporations. To facilitate
government debt financing, however, the act allowed banks to deal in federal government bonds and in general
obligation bonds issued by state and local governments and backed by their full faith and credit.
The 1933 act nevertheless continued earlier laws that prohibited banks from underwriting for public sale revenue
bonds that were backed by expected revenues from user charges on government services. Banks were allowed,
however, to buy. revenue bonds for their own investment accounts.
7/2/09 3:27 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 5http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224204&type=hitlist&num=6
Since 1933, revenue bonds had become a much more common form of government financing for public projects
such as water and sewer facilities, mass transit systems, hospitals and other services supported by fees paid by
persons using them. Once regarded as more risky investments than general obligation bonds, in recent years
revenue bonds were considered of better quality, according to the committee's report.
To put safeguards against abuses by banks dealing in revenue bonds, the committee included provisions that would:
Prohibit a bank from transferring bonds it had bought as an underwriter to its own investment account.
Prohibit a bank acting as underwriter or dealer from selling a bond to any of its trust accounts unless so directed by court
order.
Require a bank to disclose its role as underwriter or dealer to depositors, customers or other banks that bought the
bonds.
Require that bonds underwritten by a bank meet standards set by the comptroller of the currency for bonds included in
the bank's own investment portfolio.
Business Loans
To end a money market squeeze on banks in three states, the committee's bill would permit all national banks and
federally insured savings and loan associations to charge interest rates on business and agriculture loans up to 5
per cent more than the Federal Reserve System's discount rate, regardless of state usury restrictions.
By allowing interest of up to about 13 per cent on such loans, the bill would enable institutions in Tennessee,
Arkansas and Montana to bypass state laws that put 10 per cent ceilings on business and agriculture loans. Under
those limits, business and agriculture loans were unprofitable to financial institutions that had to pay up to 13 per
cent interest to borrow money themselves.
Most states exempted business loans from interest-rate limits—or set limits on such loans at levels that posed no
problem in the current money market. But three states had 10 per cent ceilings, Montana by statute and Tennessee
and Arkansas by state constitutional provisions.
The committee offered the measure as an interim solution for those three states, applying its provisions only to
loans made before July 1, 1977. The legislation was intended, the report said, “to give the state legislatures and
constitutional conventions sufficient time to act and to avoid unemployment and severe economic repercussions
during the interim.”
Floor Action
Before passing S 3838 by voice vote Sept. 10, the Senate adopted amendments that would extend usury-law relief
to California banks and to investment companies set up to finance small businesses. By voice vote, the Senate
adopted an amendment by Alan Cranston (D Calif.) that in effect would exempt borrowings by California banking
institutions from a 10 per cent interest ceiling established by the state's constitution.
Although California's usury provision did not apply to interest charged by banks and savings and loan associations
on loans, it had been interpreted as preventing banking institutions—and bank holding companies—from paying
interest of more than 10 per cent in borrowing funds from the public or other sources. That interpretation would
prohibit California corporations from issuing variable interest notes such as the Citicorp notes.
With any change in the state constitution's usury restrictions requiring a referendum that could not be held until June
1976, the California legislature Aug. 29 petitioned Congress to provide relief from its unintended effects until a
constitutional amendment could be considered. Accordingly, Cranston's amendment would pre-empt state
restrictions on interest paid by banking institutions until July 1, 1977, with exceptions for any state that passed
another law setting an interest-rate limit on banking institution borrowing.
Small Business
To encourage small business development in Tennessee, Arkansas and Montana, the Senate by voice vote
adopted an amendment by Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee Chairman John Sparkman (D Ala.) that
would exempt small business investment companies (SBICs) from those states' 10 per cent interest rate ceilings.
Set up under Small Business Administration (SBA) regulation to provide loans to start and develop small firms,
SBICs were prohibited by SBA rules from charging interest of more than 15 per cent a year. In states with usury
laws, however, SBICs could not charge more than the state-imposed interest ceilings. (SBIC background, Congress
and the Nation Vol. II, p. 295; Vol. III, p. 186)
As a result, few SBICs had been established in Tennessee, Arkansas and Montana, and few loans had gone to
firms in those states. As provided for banking institutions under S 3838, Sparkman's amendment would allow SBICs
to charge interest rates of not more than 5 per cent above the Federal Reserve discount rate.
Other Amendments
7/2/09 3:27 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 5http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224204&type=hitlist&num=6
By voice vote, the Senate adopted an amendment by John G. Tower (R Texas) that would turn the proceeds from
unused travelers checks or money orders over to the government of the state in which they were purchased. Under
existing law, the proceeds went to the state where the company issuing the instruments was headquartered, usually
New York state.
The Senate sidestepped more drastic action against abuses in bank bond underwriting by rejecting by voice vote an
amendment by Philip A. Hart (D Mich.), chairman of the Judiciary Committee Subcommittee on Antitrust and
Monopoly.
Hart's amendment would have applied to bank dealings in state and local general obligation bonds the safeguards
set by S 3838 against abuses in dealings in revenue bonds. It also would have prohibited banks from buying bonds
from an underwriting syndicate at terms more favorable than the syndicate offered to the general public.
Sparkman and William Proxmire (D Wis.), the Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee's second-ranking
Democrat, opposed Hart's amendment as likely to increase state and local government borrowing costs by ending
negotiation of bond prices.
Conference Action
In the conference report on S 3838 (H Rept 93–1440) filed on Oct. 8, conferees resolved largely technical
differences between the House and Senate language conferring authority to regulate bank holding company bonds.
Conferees kept a House provision that exempted from regulation bonds issued by a bank holding company that had
declared its intention to sell its banking subsidiary. They also kept a Senate amendment that specifically exempted
debt obligations, such as those termed commercial paper, that holding companies and non-bank subsidiaries
generally sold in large denominations to institutional investors such as life insurance companies, pension funds and
banks.
While keeping the Senate's amendments to override state usury law restrictions, the conferees dropped other
Senate amendments that would have:
Permitted federally regulated banks to deal in and underwrite the sale of revenue bonds by state and local
governments. That ended a 40-year ban against bank dealing in revenue bonds, which were secured by revenues
earned by the project being financed.
Directed that unclaimed money orders or unused travelers checks be turned over to the state government in the state
where sold.
Congress Oct. 11 enacted the provision dealing with disposal of money orders and travelers checks as an
amendment to comprehensive banking legislation (HR 11221). (Story on HR 11221, this chapter)
Final Action
Congress completed action on S 3838 when the Senate Oct. 9 and the House Oct. 11, both by voice votes,
approved the conference report.
Document Citation
"Citicorp Notes." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal74-1224204. Originally published in CQ Almanac
1974 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1975). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal74-1224204 (accessed July 2,
2009).
Document ID: cqal74-1224204
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal74-1224204
© 1975, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
