7/2/09 3:15 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 8http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224365&type=hitlist&num=8
Document Outline
Need for Legislation
Provisions
House Committee Action
House Floor Action
Senate Committee Action
Senate Floor Action
Conference Report
Final Action
Features
Ford Signs Bill to Regulate Commodity Futures
An article from CQ Almanac 1974
President Ford Oct. 23 signed into law HR 13113 (PL 93 - 463 ), to strengthen and expand federal regulation
of commodity futures trading through a new five-member commission.
The independent Commodity Futures Trading Commission created by the bill would have broad authority to regulate
the booming commodity exchanges, including the power to seek injunctions against trading abuses and to intervene
directly to protect traders against market manipulations or other emergencies.
In a statement issued Oct. 24, President Ford said he had signed the bill “because of the need for better regulation
of commodity futures trading,” despite “strong objections” to three provisions he said would “erode necessary
executive control.” The first two directed the commission to submit its budget and legislative requests to the
executive branch and Congress simultaneously, and the third required Senate confirmation of the commission's
director.
Ford said the provisions on budget and legislative submissions would hamper him in formulating “a single
coordinated budget” and “a coherent coordinated legislative program” to present to Congress. Senate confirmation of
the executive director would violate the constitutional principle of separation of powers, he argued. Ford said he
would promptly submit legislation to correct these provisions and urged their passage before the session's end.
Congress took no action on the requests.
Need for Legislation
The bill was a response to appeals of farmers and others for better federal policing of the industry. As food
shortages and increased consumer demand sent commodity prices soaring in the early 1970s, speculation in futures
increased. Over $500-billion in futures contracts changed hands in 1973—nearly twice the volume traded that year
in stocks.
It was generally agreed by this time that the Agriculture Department's 38-year-old Commodity Exchange Authority
(CEA) lacked the staff and legal clout to protect investors, consumers and farmers who traded in futures as a form
of insurance. The giant 1972 grain sale to the Soviet Union dramatized the possibility that large grain companies and
even foreign countries could—without proper surveillance—manipulate commodities markets with disastrous
consequences for the United States. (Soviet grain sale, this chapter)
The new five-member commission would replace the CEA and assume jurisdiction over all commodities traded on
the nation's exchanges. Existing law left a number of futures markets unregulated, and trading was growing fastest
in that area. About one-third of contracts traded in 1973 involved unregulated commodities.
Provisions
As signed into law, HR 13113 included the following major provisions:
Created an independent, five-member Commodity Futures Trading Commission to regulate all trading in commodity
futures; the commission was to absorb the staff and functions of the Agriculture Department's Commodity Exchange
Authority; the commission's members would be appointed by the president and confirmed by the Senate for staggered
five-year terms, with no more than three of the five members permitted to come from the same political party; the
commission would appoint an executive director, who also would be subject to Senate confirmation.
 
7/2/09 3:15 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 8http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224365&type=hitlist&num=8
Directed the secretary of agriculture to appoint a liaison officer to maintain an office within the commission, with authority
to attend but not participate in commission deliberations and proceedings; the commission would be required to set up
its own liaison office within the Agriculture Department.
Directed the commission, whenever it submitted a budget request to the president or the Office of Management and
Budget (OMB), to submit the request simultaneously to the House and Senate Appropriations and Agriculture
Committees.
Directed the commission, whenever it submitted legislative requests, testimony or comments on legislation to the
president or OMB, to submit the materials simultaneously to the House and Senate Agriculture Committees.
Authorized the commission to seek court injunctions against violations or potential violations of commodity trading laws
or regulations, or attempts to restrain commodity trading; as an alternative, the commission could request the attorney
general to bring legal action; if it acted independently, the commission would be required to inform the attorney general
and keep him advised of developments in the case.
Authorized the commission to intervene in contract markets to restore orderly trading under an emergency situation—
defined as 1) a threatened or actual market manipulation or corner, and 2) any act of the United States or a foreign
government affecting a commodity or any other major market disturbance which prevented the market from accurately
reflecting the forces of supply and demand.
Authorized the commission to assess fines of up to $100,000 in both administrative and criminal proceedings for
violations of the act.
Established a reparations procedure for the commission to follow in handling complaints of illegal trading practices, with
decisions subject to judicial review; the procedure would take effect one year after enactment.
Directed the commission to require contract markets to submit daily trading reports if they were found to be necessary
for effective regulation of futures trading; granted the commission authority to determine the content as well as frequency
of trading reports to be submitted by the markets.
Directed the commission to decide, within six months of the effective date of the act, whether floor brokers and futures
commission merchants should be allowed to trade at the same time for themselves and for clients; if dual trading were
allowed, the commission would be required to set regulations governing the practice.
Directed the contracts markets to submit their trading regulations to the commission for approval.
Directed the commission, in issuing orders and regulations, to take into consideration the public interest to be protected
by the antitrust laws, and to attempt to achieve its goals using “the least anticompetitive means.”
Authorized the commission to establish additional points for the delivery of a commodity in order to prevent or reduce
price manipulation, market congestion or the abnormal movement of the commodity in interstate commerce.
Directed the commission to establish regulations governing options trading in commodities where the practice was not
already banned.
Authorized the commission to define “bona fide” hedging practices, and directed it to allow hedging by the users of
products of traded commodities as well as users of the commodities.
Authorized the commission to allow commodity traders to form voluntary associations to regulate the practices of their
members.
Authorized the commission to conduct regular investigations of markets for commodities that were the subject of futures
trading, and to report its findings to the public.
Directed the commission to study the feasibility of trading by computer, and to report to Congress by June 30, 1976, on
the need for legislation providing insurance against losses caused by the financial collapse of futures commission
merchants.
Provided that the bill would take effect 180 days from enactment, with the commission to be established as of the
enactment date.
House Committee Action
The House Agriculture Committee April 4 reported HR 13113 (H Kept 93 –975). As reported, the bill would have
set up a semi-independent commission to replace the CEA which was established under the 1936 Commodity
Exchange Act.
“CEA has failed to move with the times,” the committee's report said. It described the unit as understaffed and
lacking the independence and legal authority to deal with the increasingly serious problems of price manipulation
7/2/09 3:15 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 8http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224365&type=hitlist&num=8
lacking the independence and legal authority to deal with the increasingly serious problems of price manipulation
and inflation of commodity prices.
Along with broad new powers to prescribe and enforce regulations for the industry, the proposed commission would
for the first time assume federal authority over all commodities traded in futures markets. “While trading in regulated
commodity futures has nearly doubled since the Committee last considered amendments to the Commodity
Exchange Act (1969), trading in non-regulated contracts has approached four times its 1969 figure,” the committee
reported.
The bill would represent “the first complete overhaul of the Commodity Exchange Act since its inception,” the
committee said, “and proposes a comprehensive regulatory structure to oversee the volatile and esoteric futures
trading complex.”
Background
Most citizens had at best a vague idea of what went on inside the nation's commodities exchanges, although the
trading of commodities contracts, or futures, had a significant impact on their grocery bills. Recognizing the
“esoteric” and complex nature of the industry, the Agriculture Committee included in its report a detailed account of
its history and intricacies.
Organized commodity markets sprang up in the United States in the late 1700s, the report said. Since they were
held at a fixed time and place, they attracted a glut of products, leaving shortages in the intervening months. To
remedy that, farmers began contracting with merchants to deliver goods at specified future dates—“forward
contracting.”
In a further refinement of the system, designed to insure prospective sellers against the hazards of storing and
transporting their goods, traders agreed upon a price as they made their forward contracts. This was the beginning
of futures trading, which the report defined as “purchases and sales of contracts for delivery at some future date of
certain quantities of specific commodities at fixed prices.”
Futures trading evolved to the point where only about three per cent of the contracts actually resulted in delivery of
the product being traded, the report said. Instead, as the contracts approached the delivery month, holders
liquidated them by making an equal but opposite transaction. Most traders were either speculators or “hedgers”—
farmers or others who bought and sold the commodities themselves on the cash market, but who traded in futures
as insurance against damaging price fluctuations.
Independence Issue
The Agriculture Committee's proposed regulatory commission would consist of four public members appointed by
the president and confirmed by the Senate, plus the Secretary of Agriculture or his designee. The commission would
absorb the employees of the Commodity Exchange Authority and have access to the facilities and services of the
Agriculture Department.
The arrangement was too independent for some and not enough for others. “While we support the Commission
concept, we believe it should be an agency within the Department of Agriculture,” a spokesman from that
department testified Jan. 23. He said there was no need for the commission to have its own legal staff and general
counsel, as the committee's bill stipulated.
Comptroller General Elmer B. Staats, in a Feb. 13 letter explaining the General Accounting Office's views, argued for
a completely independent regulatory commission similar to the Securities and Exchange Commission, which
regulated the stock market. This would protect the Secretary of Agriculture from possible conflicts of interest, he
said. Staats also pointed out that many of the commodities traded as futures (metals, forest products, foreign
currency) were not agricultural products and thus did not belong within that department's purview.
The House Select Small Business Committee took the same position in a report on commodities futures trading (H
Kept 93 –963) issued April 1. “Despite the existence of any circumstances which previously justified a laissez
faire attitude toward commodities futures, today's market clearly demands that regulation be by a full-time regulatory
agency,” the committee said.
In reply, the Agriculture Committee contended that a totally independent commission would be likely to “advocate a
regulatory pattern controlled by speculative interests, at cost to legitimate hedging interests, with resulting harsh
effects on the marketing system of agricultural commodities.” The committee's bill “seeks to build a bridge between
the philosophy of regulatory independence and the reality of maintaining the expertise of the Department of
Agriculture,” the report concluded.
Hearings, Committee Vote
The Agriculture Committee held preliminary hearings on commodities trading in the fall of 1973, and then appointed
an ad hoc subcommittee headed by Frank A. Stubblefield (D Ky.) to draft legislation to improve federal regulation of
the industry. In early 1974 the committee held a second round of hearings on the Stubble-field panel's bill (HR
11955). The full committee made a number of relatively minor changes in the bill during mark-up sessions in
February. They emerged with a clean bill (HR 13113), which was ordered reported March 6 by a vote of 24–8.
“The only significant opposition to regulation of all futures trading was voiced by the exchanges which trade in world
7/2/09 3:15 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 8http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224365&type=hitlist&num=8
“The only significant opposition to regulation of all futures trading was voiced by the exchanges which trade in world
commodities such as coffee, cocoa, sugar, silver and copper,” the report said. Those witnesses contended that
added costs of complying with new rules would cause foreign traders to desert U.S. exchanges in favor of foreign
exchanges.
Minority Views
A broader attack on the bill came from four Republican committee members, who disowned it entirely in minority
views included in the report. The measure “represents a total lack of faith in our market-oriented free enterprise
system…(and) could destroy the futures industry in this country,” they warned. The objection was signed by LaMar
Baker (Tenn.), Robert Price (Texas), Steven D. Symms (Idaho) and Edward L. Young (S.C.).
Baker and another Republican, George A. Goodling (Pa.), also opposed the bill because they said it would “add a
thousand or more federal employees to a bureaucracy already bloated beyond decent dimensions.”
Highlights of Bill
The Commodity Futures Trading Commission Act of 1974 would amend the 1936 Commodity Exchange Act by
setting up a five-member regulatory commission made up of four public members, appointed by the president and
confirmed by the Senate for staggered five-year terms, and the secretary of agriculture or his designee. The new
commission would absorb the staff of the Agriculture Department's Commodity Exchange Authority and be allowed
to use the department's office space and other facilities. But it would have its own general counsel and legal staff.
It would be a felony for commissioners, employees or agents of the commission to participate in any form in
commodities trading.
The bill would grant the commission broad new regulatory powers, including:
Authority to regulate all traded commodities.
Authority to seek injunctions to stop anyone from violating the act or the commission's regulations, and to impose
penalties of up to $100,000 in both administrative and criminal proceedings against violators.
Authority to operate customer reparation proceedings, with formal hearings for complaints involving over $2,500.
Special emergency authority to intervene in markets and direct their activities in “market emergency” cases such as war,
price controls, export embargoes or significant intervention of a foreign government in the futures market.
Authority to oversee the establishment of voluntary futures associations to regulate the practices of their members.
The commission would be charged with writing and enforcing new regulations on several controversial issues,
including:
Floor brokers and futures commission merchants trading for themselves and for customers at the same time. The
commission would have to decide within six months of enactment whether this practice should be allowed and, if so, to
prescribe rules governing it.
Multiple delivery points. The commission would be authorized to require markets to allow delivery of commodities at a
number of locations, instead of just one designated spot, if it found this practice economically beneficial.
Hedging. The commission would have authority to define legitimate hedging.
Options trading (trading in options to buy or sell a commodity contract at its current price within a specified time period).
Although it was prohibited for the commodities already under federal regulation, the commission would have authority to
set rules for such trading in the commodities that would come under regulation for the first time under the bill.
House Floor Action
The House April 11 passed HR 13113 by a 281–43 vote. (Vote 111, p. 38-H)
No major changes were made in the bill on the floor.
The bill's supporters, led by Agriculture Committee Chairman W.R. Poage (D Texas), defended the proposed
commission and its extended powers as necessary for effective regulation of a rapidly growing industry that had
outstripped the stock exchange in total dollar volume traded.
Allegations that the market was manipulated to the detriment of U.S. consumers after the large sales of wheat to the
Soviet Union in 1972 came up repeatedly during the debate. “Major grain exporting companies speculated freely on
the commodities exchanges, and it appears their manipulation of the trading allowed them to buy wheat cheap and
keep it secret from other traders. Later they sold it at higher prices to the Russians,” said Brock Adams (D Wash.).
“Without new controls there is nothing to prevent foreign nations from manipulating commodity futures,” he added.
7/2/09 3:15 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 8http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224365&type=hitlist&num=8
Another supporter of the bill, George E. Brown Jr. (D Calif.), cited stories of “unsophisticated investors” who lost their
life savings trading on unregulated exchanges. “Such events can only occur because of the inadequacy of regulatory
activity over a market now twice the size, in dollar volume of trading, of the securities market, which is regulated by
a much larger and more effective regulatory body, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).”
“It is just one more instance where the government is attempting to get its long arm around the necks of more
people,” countered George A. Goodling (R Pa.), one of five Republicans on the Agriculture Committee to file
dissenting views in the report.
Steven D. Symms (R Idaho), another of the five committee members and one of the bill's most energetic opponents,
unsuccessfully moved to recommit the measure to committee with instructions to report out a greatly weakened
substitute. He warned that by approving the bill, the House would be “taking another step down the road toward
allowing the government and the bureaucrats to make the market decisions which should be made in the
marketplace by individuals.”
A third committee dissenter, Robert Price (R Texas), insisted that “the commodity exchange and the businessmen
who stand behind this have done a fantastic job in regulating their own businesses, benefiting the American
producers in this country.”
Action on Amendments
Those who thought the proposed commission should be strengthened by having greater autonomy than the
Agriculture Committee provided came close to succeeding in adopting an amendment offered by one of the
committee's senior Democrats, B.F. Sisk (Calif.), and opposed by Poage. The Sisk amendment, defeated on a 158–
179 vote, would have required that the commission's four public members devote full time to its work, to the
exclusion of other jobs. In addition, it would have prohibited the fifth member, the secretary of agriculture, from being
appointed chairman. (Vote 110, p. 38-H)
Poage said the committee had already worked out “a very fine arrangement…which recognizes the agricultural
orientation of this legislation and which also recognizes that there should be an input from other sections of the
country.” Paul Findley (R Ill.) added that “people who are most knowledgeable in the field of commodity markets
probably have incomes in six figures” and could not be lured to the $36,000-a-year commission job if they had to
give up all other pursuits.
Another strengthening amendment, offered by Charles A. Vanik (D Ohio) and rejected by voice vote, would have
given the new commission express power to regulate the determination of margins—customer fees payed to ensure
exchanges against loss due to unfulfilled contracts. “If you want to stop the frantic gambling in futures, by people
who have no interest in the commodity traded, then it is essential that the commission have the power to supervise
margin setting,” Vanik said.
The House also defeated by voice vote an amendment to weaken the commission's authority. Offered by Edward L.
Young (R S.C.), who opposed the bill in committee, the amendment would have eliminated the commission's special
authority to intervene in case of a “market emergency” such as a war, price controls or “significant intervention of
foreign governments in the futures market.”
Young contended that such authority would “jeopardize the price of farm commodities we grow by the restrictions of
this commission on world trade.” Poage replied that the amendment would prevent the commission from protecting
the nation “in the case of another Russian grain deal, from the Russians themselves going into the market and
using the exchanges as a means of making a double profit on a deal with the United States.”
The only successful amendment, adopted by voice vote without opposition, was a proposal by James T. Broyhill (R
N.C.) to authorize appropriations for the new commission only through fiscal 1978, instead of on an open-ended
basis.
Senate Committee Action
The Senate Agriculture and Forestry Committee reported a strengthened version of HR 13113 Aug. 29.
“In recent years, the consumer has become increasingly aware that futures markets have a direct effect on such
matters as his grocery bill and the cost of his home,” said the Senate committee's Aug. 29 report (S Rept 93 –
1131) on the bill. “In order to assure that futures markets operate properly and that the prices consumers pay are
not artificially high, careful and efficient supervision of the markets is essential.”
“If individual speculators or groups operating in concert obtain control of the futures market, price manipulation,
corners and squeezes can occur, with adverse effects on producers and consumers alike,” the report warned.
A central factor in the growth of futures trading and its attendant risks, the report explained, was “a major shift to a
market-oriented economy” caused by the decrease in government stockpiling of commodities. Without such
surpluses to put on the market at strategic times, prices began to fluctuate and futures speculation increased.
Independence Issue
7/2/09 3:15 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 8http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224365&type=hitlist&num=8
Under the House-passed bill, the new commission would consist of four public members, appointed by the president
and confirmed by the Senate, and the secretary of agriculture or his designee. It would absorb the CEA staff and
use Agriculture Department facilities and services. The commission would be required to meet at least once a
month.
The Senate committee amended the bill to set up instead an independent commission along the lines of the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), made up of five public members appointed by the president and
confirmed by the Senate. The president would be required to choose a balanced panel which included members
expert in the fields of commodities trading, farming, food marketing and consumer affairs.
During the committee's May hearings on futures regulation bills, “the overwhelming weight of testimony was in favor
of the full-time, independent commission,” with only the Agriculture Department strongly opposing it, the report said.
Some committee members thought that tying the commission to the Agriculture Department could lead to conflicts of
interest since the department was legally charged with protecting farmers' prices and incomes. “The agency which
regulates futures trading must have a neutral role on commodity prices,” the report said.
House members who argued against the Sisk amendment to make the commission full-time contended that
commodity trading experts had very high incomes and could not be persuaded to serve if it meant giving up other
more lucrative pursuits. But the Senate committee countered that “a full-time prestigious commission…would induce
the best and most knowledgeable people to serve.”
Expansion of Regulation
Another reason for having a commission independent of the Agriculture Department, the committee argued, was
that under HR 13113 for the first time trading in nonagricultural commodities would come under federal regulation.
Under existing law, about half the commodities traded—including coffee, sugar, lumber, plywood, silver and other
metals—remained unregulated. Both the House and Senate bills would give the new commission authority to
regulate all traded commodities.
“There are indications that futures markets will be further expanded to cover additional goods and services,” the
report said. “Discussions are already underway concerning futures markets in such things as home mortgages and
ocean freight.” Trading in petroleum and gold futures also was under consideration.
Daily Trading Report
One Senate provision not included in the House bill was a Dick Clark (D Iowa) proposal to require commodity
exchanges to keep and provide the commission with detailed daily trading reports. These would have to list the
time, subject, amount, price, delivery month and traders for each transaction. The commission would have the
authority to call for additional information, and to make the information public in the interests of futures trading
regulation.
In addition, the exchanges would have to publish daily reports on the volume of trading on each type of contract and
on any other information the commission requested.
Information gathered from the daily trading reports would give federal regulators their first clear picture of the effect
on the market of floor brokers who traded for themselves and for clients. There had been charges from time to time
that floor traders manipulated the market for their own advantage, but existing reporting practices were too vague to
verify them.
The reporting provision “could cause a major upheaval on the trading floors of the nation's major exchanges,
including the largest, the Chicago Board of Trade,” the Washington Star-News reported Sept. 8. The Star quoted
Fred Uhlmann, chairman of that exchange, as saying the requirement would “seriously impede floor traders and slow
down the trading process.”
Injunctive Power
Under the Senate version of the bill, the proposed commission could go directly to court to seek an injunction
against violators of its regulations, without working through the attorney general as required by the House bill. The
need for an injunction might be too urgent for such delay, the report said, and “the committee felt that the
commission's attorneys would likely be more knowledgeable in futures trading than the attorneys in the Department
of Justice.”
Emergency Powers
Although the Senate bill called for tighter regulations in most areas where the two versions differed, it did put
restrictions on the House bill's provisions relating to the commission's powers to intervene in futures markets when
orderly trading was threatened.
“The committee felt that the term ‘emergency’ was defined too loosely in the House bill,” the report said. Under the
Senate bill, the commission could use its extraordinary intervention authority only in specified emergency cases and
only when it decided that the emergency would do more damage to the market than would the intervention.
7/2/09 3:15 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 8http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224365&type=hitlist&num=8
Senate Floor Action
After adopting two technical amendments, the Senate Sept. 9 passed HR 13113 by voice vote.
Herman E. Talmadge (D Ga.), chairman of the Senate Agriculture and Forestry Committee, said the measure was a
response to a “wide-felt concern that market abuse and manipulation of prices was occurring.”
Carl T. Curtis (Neb.), ranking Republican on the committee, added that he hoped “we are not creating a new
bureaucracy that will become an ‘over-regulatory’ agency in order to justify its continual expansion.”
Clark said he was convinced of the need for better regulation of futures trading after reading a newspaper series
about a man who was tricked out of large sums of money by a firm he traded for—and also by “the results of the
Soviet grain deal in 1972.” His concern was shared by “thousands of farmers in Iowa and across the country,” who
“strongly suspect that manipulation of the commodities exchanges has resulted in higher grain prices, higher beef
prices and shortages,” Clark said.
Conference Report
The conference report on HR 13113 was filed in the House Sept. 27 (H Rept 93 –1383) and in the Senate
Sept. 30 (S Rept 93 –1194). The final version followed the outlines of the Senate bill in most cases, but with a
number of compromises.
Commission Make-Up
The House-passed bill would have established a parttime commission made up of four public members and the
agriculture secretary or his designee. The conferees adopted instead the Senate bill's provisions for a commission of
five full-time public members.
In recognition of the Agriculture Department's experience and expertise in regulating futures trading, conferees
added a provision requiring the department and the futures commission to set up separate liaison offices to
exchange information. The department's liaison officer to the commission could attend its meetings but could not
vote or participate in any other way.
Injunctions
Conferees adopted the Senate provision authorizing the commission's attorneys to seek court injunctions against
illegal trading practices without prior Justice Department approval, as required in the House bill. Conferees added
provisions allowing'the commission to ask the attorney general to seek an injunction for it, and requiring the
commission to keep him informed of all legal actions it brought independently.
Daily Trading Reports
Conferees compromised on a controversial Senate provision, not in the House bill, requiring commodity exchanges
to provide the commission with daily reports on the time, subject, amount, price, delivery month and traders for each
transaction. The conference agreement left it up to the commission to specify the frequency and contents of trading
reports.
Proponents of the mandatory daily trading reports argued that with data on traders' names and the time of each
transaction, federal officials could get a clear picture of the effect on the market of floor brokers who traded for
themselves and for clients. There had been charges that such traders manipulated the market for their own
advantage, but existing reporting practices were too vague to prove them. The major exchanges protested the
inclusion of the provision on grounds that they did not have the technological capacity to provide the information.
Final Action
The House adopted the conference report Oct. 9 on a 374–4 vote. (Vote 434, p. 134-H)
A motion to recommit the report to the conference committee for amendment, offered by LaMar Baker (R Tenn.),
was rejected by voice vote. Baker wanted the conferees to drop the provisions granting the commission authority to
go to court independently and directing it to submit its budget requests to the appropriate congressional committees
at the same time they went to the Office of Management and Budget.
The Senate adopted the rporte by voice vote Oct. 10, without objection, completing congressional action.
Features
Daily Crop Export Reports
A Sept. 8 report that the Agriculture Department had abandoned plans to step up its monitoring of export sales of
7/2/09 3:15 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 8http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224365&type=hitlist&num=8
A Sept. 8 report that the Agriculture Department had abandoned plans to step up its monitoring of export sales of
U.S. crops drew a quick reaction from farm state senators concerned about food shortages at home.
Prompted by the huge sales of grain to the Soviet Union in 1972 and the resulting domestic shortages and price
spiral, Congress added a provision to the 1973 farm bill (PL 93-86) requiring private crop traders to report foreign
sales on a weekly basis. The department was required to publish a weekly compilation of the information gathered.
After new crop shortages were reported in August, department officials and Senate farm leaders discussed a plan to
require daily reporting of large export sales. The increased surveillance was to be aimed at preventing overselling of
key crops in short supply—especially corn and soybeans.
During Senate consideration of the commodity futures commission bill Sept. 9, Dick Clark (D Iowa) expressed
concern about the news item, which said the department had abandoned the daily reporting plan because it would
be too easy for traders to evade its requirements.
Herman E. Talmadge (D Ga.), chairman of the Agriculture and Forestry Committee, responded that Agriculture
Secretary Earl L. Butz had told the committee in August he was already requiring the daily export reports. When he
learned of the news report to the contrary, Talmadge said, he called Butz immediately and “received assurances
from him…that the secretary is going to reinstitute the daily surveillance of exports.”
Document Citation
"Ford Signs Bill  to Regulate Commodity Futures." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal74-1224365.
Originally published in CQ Almanac 1974 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1975).
http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal74-1224365 (accessed July 2, 2009).
Document ID: cqal74-1224365
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal74-1224365
© 1975, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
