8/10/09 1:58 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 6http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1225053&type=hitlist&num=2
Mortgages
2007 Tightening Reins on Mortgage
Lenders
2007 Debate Over Fannie, Freddie
Shifts
2007 Bills Aim to Ease Mortgage
Crunch
2005 Attempts to Rein In Mortgage
Giants Stall
1997 Mortgage Insurance Bill Advances
1994 Second Supplemental Keeps
Mortgage Programs Alive
1993 FHA Foreclosure Bill Awaits Final
Action
1990 Mortgage ‘Prepayment’
Compromise
1990 Federal Housing Administration
(FHA) Insurance Program Shored
Up
1989 Congress Raises Ceiling for
Federal Housing Administration
(FHA) Mortgage Loans
1983 Mortgage Revenue Bonds
1983 Mortgage Aid Fails
1980 Housing Authorization
1979 Tax-Exempt Mortgage Bonds
1975 Congress Clears ‘Redlining’
Legislation
1975 Congress Blocks Variable
Mortgage Rate Plan
1974 Congress Votes Emergency
Mortgage Aid
1972 Mortgage Settlement Costs
1970 Congress Clears Emergency Home
Finance Act Of 1970
1967 Home Ownership Bills not
Enacted in 1967
1966 Funds Provided FNMA to Help
Housing Industry
1966 “Participations” Approved as
Borrowing Device
1960 Emergency Housing Bill
1957 Congress Expands Housing
Programs
1954 Omnibus Housing Act Of 1954
1953 Housing Amendments
Banking
Housing Appropriations
Savings and Loan Industry
Congress Votes Emergency Mortgage Aid
An article from CQ Almanac 1974
Document Outline
Provisions
Background
Senate Committee Action
Senate Floor Action
House Action
Congress Oct. 15 cleared for the President S 3979  (PL 93-449) to
authorize emergency federal support for home mortgage loan programs.
Meeting President Ford' s  request for passage of. the emergency bill
before Congress recessed, the House cleared the measure by approving by
voice vote and without change the Senate version, passed Oct. 10. To speed
House action, the Senate bill was held at the House speaker' s  desk
without referral to committee and then considered under a closed rule barring
floor amendments.
President Ford in his economic address Oct. 8 asked Congress to clear
legislation to aid the depressed housing industry before the election recess.
(Text p. 43-A)
As cleared, the bill would expand the tight mortgage money supply by
authorizing the federal government to buy up conventional mortgage loans—
those not backed by the government—as- well as government-insured loans.
President Ford indicated that he would make $3-billion available immediately
for purchase of mortgages. The purchases should free private funds for more
loans, stimulating new construction.
The House closed rule procedure was used to avoid an argument over a
controversial Senate amendment lowering the interest rates proposed in an
administration-backed compromise measure. If the House had made any
changes in the Senate-passed bill, final congressional action would have
been doubtful before the election recess began.
There was initial concern that the Senate amendment might force the
President to veto the bill as an inflationary program subsidizing interest rates
well below market levels. House sponsors, however, indicated that the
administration could accept the amended bill with suitable clarification of the
interest amendment during House debate. House sponsors, for instance, said
that the interest rate allowed on mortgages purchased by the government
might reach 8–7/8 per cent rather than the 8'4 per cent rate discussed during
Senate action.
The emergency one-year program was aimed primarily at middle-income
homebuyers frozen out of the housing market by scarce mortgage money and
high interest rates. Mortgage loans of up to $42,000 would be covered by the
program, which, with a required 20 per cent cash down payment, would allow
purchase of homes costing up to $52,500. Under the traditional rule of thumb,
a family would need an income of about $20,000 to purchase houses at that
sale price. Actual mortgage amounts, however, were likely to be much lower,
except in very high-cost housing areas.
Provisions
As signed into law, S 3979 :
 
8/10/09 1:58 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 6http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1225053&type=hitlist&num=2
Authorized the Government National Mortgage Association, at the direction of the housing and urban development
(HUD) secretary, to buy and sell “conventional” mortgages on one- to four-family residencies and government-insured
mortgages on any size residency.
Barred the association from buying mortgages on one-to four-family houses which were not the principal residence of
the buyer.
Limited the maximum loan amount for mortgages purchased by the association to $42,000; authorized a mortgage
ceiling of $55,000 in Alaska, Hawaii and Guam; required a 20 per cent down payment on one- to four-family houses
financed with mortgages purchased by the association.
Limited the maximum interest rate on mortgages purchased by the association to the most recent monthly average yield
on six- to 12-year Treasury bonds plus one-half of 1 per cent for administrative costs.
Authorized the association to sell and guarantee securities.
Authorized the HUD secretary to make a portion of association funds available for purchase of mortgages on existing
housing.
Limited the total outstanding value of mortgages purchased under the program and not yet resold to $7.75-billion at any
one time; provided for the expiration of the program after one year.
Required the Council on Wage and Price Stability to report to the President and Congress every 90 days with
recommendations on how to contain inflation.
Background
Ford Program
In his economic address Oct. 8, Ford asked Congress to act on legislation which would allow the Government
National Mortgage Association (Ginny Mae) to buy conventional mortgages—those not insured by the federal
government—as well as loans backed by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) or Veterans Administration.
The President promised to make $3-billion immediately available for the new program, enough money to finance
about 100,000 new homes. His proposal would limit the maximum mortgage amount to $45,000 and generally
require a 20 per cent cash down payment. The interest rate banks could charge on the loans was expected to be
slightly lower than the market rate, but above the rate contemplated by the Senate committee.
Previous Commitments
The Nixon administration already had made a total of $9.9-billion available in 1974 under Ginny Mae' s  regular
“tandem plan” which allowed the association to buy FHA-VA mortgages at below-market interest rates and resell
them in the secondary market at market rates, with the Treasury covering losses from the interest subsidy. On May
10, the administration had made another $7-billion available for loan advances to savings and loan associations and
commitments to buy conventional mortgage loans. Much of this money had not yet been committed, partly because
most of it could not be used to purchase conventional loans, which dominate the mortgage market. Another problem
was that builders and sellers were required to pay “points” if buyers used “tandem plan” loans. A “point,” equal to 1
per cent of the sale price, was charged by lenders to make up for lower interest rates and generally was added on
to the final sale price paid by the buyer.
Housing Industry Woes
The housing industry traditionally suffered severe setbacks during periods of tight monetary policy because, as Ford
noted Oct. 8, “credit is the lifeblood of housing.” The current credit squeeze, Ford said, had led to the “longest and
most severe housing recession since the end of World War II.”
The credit problems plaguing the housing industry were complicated, but interrelated. A key factor was the growing
outflow of savings from savings and loan associations, which made about half of all mortgage credit loans.
During periods of high interest rates, investors tended to withdraw funds from savings institutions—barred by law
from paying more than 6 per cent interest on accounts—in order to put their money into higher interest investments
such as Treasury notes or variable interest rate securities sold by bank holding companies. This outflow of savings,
called disintermediation, reached a four and a half year high in August.
In addition, potential homeowners had to compete with other borrowers, including more attractive corporate groups,
for scarce loan money. Even if they could find a source of credit, aspiring homeowners were being forced out of the
housing market by high cash down payment requirements, higher housing prices caused by inflation and mortgage
interest rates which had reached 9% to 10 per cent in many parts of the country.
Builders also were plagued by tight monetary policies which pushed up capital borrowing interest rates. At the same
time, they faced the rising cost of labor and materials. Local sewer moratoriums and other efforts to control growth
had depressed the housing industry in some parts of the country.
8/10/09 1:58 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 6http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1225053&type=hitlist&num=2
The effects of these problems were stark. Housing starts fell to a four and a half year low in August. They totaled
1,126,000 at a seasonally adjusted annual rate, 45 per cent below the 1973 rate. The number of building permits
issued—an indication of future housing starts—fell to a seven and a half year low in August.
As a consequence, unemployment in the construction industry had reached about 12 per cent, with some labor
groups estimating that it would reach 15 per cent by the end of 1974. The slowdown had “ripple effects” on housing-
related industries, such as appliance manufacturers, leading to further layoffs.
Industry Proposals
Builders and savings institutions pressed the administration for emergency efforts to aid the industry at the pre-
economic summit on housing Sept. 12. They presented a nine-point rescue program including a tax break on
savings account interest payments, and urged the Federal Reserve Board to ease its tight monetary policy. Builder
groups, including the National Association of Homebuilders, and labor unions, including the AFL-CIO, also had
backed a Senate committee bill and other efforts to pump more money into the mortgage market.
The House Ways and Means Committee approved a bill (HR 16994) Oct. 8 which would allow each individual a tax
exemption on the first $500 of interest earned on savings accounts. The exemption would have cost the Treasury an
estimated $1.8-billion in lost revenues a year. No further action was taken. (Chapter on economic policy)
Senate Committee Action
The Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee approved its bill ( S 3979 ) Sept. 24, but held up the formal
report ( S  Rept 93–1223) until Oct. 3 in order to give the administration time to submit its proposals before floor
action on the measure. Three Republicans on the committee opposed the bill.
The committee bill consolidated two measures— S  3436 sponsored by Edward W. Brooke (R Mass.) and S
3456 sponsored by Alan Cranston (D Calif.). It called for creation of a housing trust fund in Ginny Mae which would
be authorized to borrow up to $10-billion a year from the Treasury to purchase conventional and government-
backed mortgages.
The committee allowed Ginny Mae to buy mortgages on houses costing up to $30,000, except in high-cost areas
where the sale price could reach $45,000. The bill would require 20 per cent down payments. The committee also
reserved between 45 and 50 per cent of the funds for purchase of mortgages on existing housing; Ford had
proposed to limit the program to newly constructed homes.
The committee did not set any specific interest rate that lenders could charge for the loans but limited the rate to
the long-term cost of borrowing money from the Treasury plus administrative costs.
The committee argued that there would be no federal subsidy of this interest rate—expected to be below the market
rate—because Ginny Mae could not resell the mortgages until it could sell them in the market without loss. It also
contended that the program would be self-supporting because new construction activity would generate additional
tax revenues.
The committee also downplayed arguments that the bill was inflationary because it would increase competition for
remaining loan funds and push interest rates up. “Adding another $10-billion to total demand for capital funds will
put some pressure on interest rates generally,” the committee acknowledged, but argued that the housing industry
had a high-priority claim on new loan funds.
Minority Views
“A vote for this bill is a vote for continued inflation, higher interest rates and higher housing costs,” complained John
Tower (R Texas), Wallace F. Bennett (R Utah) and Bill  Brock (R Tenn.). They argued specifically that the bill would
increase the federal deficit by $10-billion and increase government usurpation of private capital markets.
Senate Floor Action
The Senate Oct. 10 passed S 3979  by a 77–0 roll-call vote after adopting a compromise substitute which
contained a controversial amendment lowering the allowable interest rate. The amendment was offered by William
Proxmire (D Wis.). (Vote 452, p. 68- S )
When the bill reached the floor Cranston and Brooke offered a substitute for the committee bill. The substitute,
based on the proposal put forth by President Ford Oct. 8, won the support of the three Republicans who had
opposed the committee bill. But its interest rate provisions were opposed by Proxmire and Committee Chairman
John Sparkman (D Ala.).
Compromise Proposal
Cranston asked the Senate to respond quickly to the President' s  request for emergency legislation by
approving the compromise. “Now we have an opportunity to show that the Senate can act responsibly and swiftly,
8/10/09 1:58 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 6http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1225053&type=hitlist&num=2
approving the compromise. “Now we have an opportunity to show that the Senate can act responsibly and swiftly,
very, very swiftly when necessary…,” he pointed out.
The compromise generally followed the lines of the Ford proposal, but included, in modified form, some provisions
of the committee bill.
As the administration proposed, the compromise would allow Ginny Mae to hold, at any one time, mortgages
purchased under the program having a total value of up to $7.75-billion. Sponsors indicated that $3-billion would be
made available immediately, as proposed by the President. The emergency program would be limited to one year.
The substitute dropped provisions of the committee bill specifically earmarking funds for mortgages on existing
homes and altered the maximum mortgage provisions of the committee version. It would allow the government to
buy mortgages on existing homes at the HUD secretary' s  discretion and limit the maximum mortgage amount
to $38,000. An amendment by Brock, adopted by voice vote, would increase this limit to $42,000.
The compromise also would allow Ginny Mae to resell mortgages at a loss. But the association also would be
authorized to sell mortgage-backed securities, an effort to keep the program self-supporting.
The substitute would have left allowable interest rates on loans purchased by Ginny Mae up to the HUD secretary.
Cranston made it clear, however, that the secretary had agreed that the rate should not exceed 9 1/2 per cent and
would “make every effort to keep the rates as low as possible.”
Proxmire Amendment
“A rate of 9 1/2 per cent is not going to give any relief to the middle-income homebuyer who has been forced out of
the housing market because of tight money and high interest,” Proxmire complained. “…There is no point in
providing for, a massive program to aid the mortgage market if the rate is beyond the ability of the average citizen.”
Proxmire proposed an amendment to limit the interest rate to the average yield on medium-term Treasury bonds
plus one-half of 1 per cent for administrative costs. The formula would set an interest rate of about 8.2 per cent
currently, but the average yield would fluctuate.
Proxmire argued that his amendment would give some real relief to prospective homeowners and assure that the
program would operate equitably in all states. Under the substitute, he noted, 10 states with usury laws restricting
interest rates to 8 1/2 per cent or less possibly could not participate in the program at all.
Brooke quibbled with Proxmire' s  contention that one-half of 1 per cent would cover administrative costs and
argued that interest rates that low would require a government subsidy. He contended specifically that a subsidy
would be inflationary and help those in upper-level income brackets who could afford to buy housing on their own.
“I do not think the distinguished senator from Wisconsin wants to subsidize housing for people who are able to pay
for their housing,” Buckley said, “at a time when we have been cutting back the subsidies for low- and moderate-
income housing.”
Proxmire insisted that his amendment was not an inflationary subsidy proposal because it would stimulate new
productivity and tax revenues. “It strikes me that if…we can subsidize the interest in Asia, …in Latin America, …all
over the world,” added John O. Pastore (D R.I.), “why can we not subsidize a little bit for the American people?”
Brooke and Cranston made it clear that they also supported lower interest rates, but argued that adoption of the
amendment would jeopardize the chances of getting any bill at all. “I am convinced we would get a veto,” Cranston
asserted.
“I would like to say that the choice is not between the happy low-interest rates that people like to vote for,” Cranston
continued, “but it is this bill or no interest rates at any level in an effort to deal with the housing shortages….”
The Senate rejected Cranston' s  motion to table the amendment by a 34–41 vote. Although he won the votes of
25 of 29 Republicans voting, he lost all but nine of 46 votes cast by Democrats. Southern Democrats opposed the
motion', 2–10. (Vote 450, p. 68- S )
The Proxmire amendment to the substitute then was adopted easily by a 48–27 vote. Twenty-two Republicans and
five Democrats opposed the amendment. (Vote 451, p. 68- S )
“…The Senate has just killed emergency housing legislation…,” Tower said after the vote. “Let us be men enough
to accept responsibility for having killed an emergency housing bill.”
Proxmire countered that there was no guarantee that the President would veto the bill, while Cranston suggested
that “there is room for negotiation” on the measure after the recess. Cranston added that the administration might
decide to accept legislation containing the Proxmire amendment if the alternative was no bill at all.
The Senate adopted the Cranston-Brooke substitute as amended by the Proxmire amendment by voice vote, before
passing the measure by a unanimous 77–0 vote.
Other Amendments
In addition to the Brock amendment to increase the mortgage amount ceiling to $42,000, the Senate adopted four
8/10/09 1:58 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 6http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1225053&type=hitlist&num=2
In addition to the Brock amendment to increase the mortgage amount ceiling to $42,000, the Senate adopted four
other amendments by voice vote before passage. They:
Authorized Ginny Mae to buy government-insured mortgages (excluded from the substitute) as well as conventional
mortgages.
Allowed the Federal Reserve Board to make loan advances secured by mortgages to its member banks at its lowest
interest (discount) rate.
Excluded any required points in calculating whether the interest rate on any loan purchased by Ginny Mae exceeded
state usury law ceilings on interest. (The amendment would give HUD flexibility to operate a higher-interest program in
usury law states if the Proxmire amendment were not included in the final version of the bill.)
Increased the maximum mortgage limit to $55,000 in Alaska, Hawaii and Guam.
House Action
The House Oct. 15 passed S 3979  by voice vote.
The House spent more time Oct. 15 debating the closed rule under which the legislation was considered than the
bill itself. Several members objected that the procedure forced the House to vote up or down on the Senate bill,
eliminated consideration of the measure by the Banking and Currency Committee and barred any floor amendments.
“The fact of the matter is that what we have done today violates every single precept of the House of
Representatives,” complained Stewart H. McKinney (K Conn.). “In essence, what we are saving is, ‘Here is a good bill
from the Senate. Let us abolish the House.’”
But William A. Barrett (D Pa.), floor manager of the bill, and Garry Brown (R Mich.), a key Republican member of the
Banking and Currency Committee, pointed out that committee Democrats had approved the procedure informally,
while most Republican members of the committee were sponsoring similar legislation. “Every time we get to the
very brink of a recess, unusual actions are necessary,” added Brown.
John B. Anderson (R Ill.) and Henry S . Reuss (D Wis.) also argued that Congress would do nothing to meet the
urgent needs of the housing industry before the recess if it did not act directly on the Senate bill. The procedure
“was not the model of tidiness that we would like it,” Reuss acknowledged. “However, for our sins, remember we are
trying to accommodate the President' s  request.”
Turning aside Dave Martin' s  (R Neb.) suggestion that the House delay action until after the recess, the House
voted 355–13 to adopt the closed rule (H Res 1446) clearing the way for approval of the Senate version. Five
Democrats and 8 Republicans opposed the rule. (Vote 453, p. 138-H)
Floor Debate
Debate on the bill itself was truncated because many House members were rushing to get to the White House for
the President' s  signing of the campaign finance reform bill. Sponsors conducted hurried colloquys designed to
clarify the bill' s  provisions, while others quickly noted some objections to the Senate version or presented
statements for inclusion in the Congressional Record.
A. discussion between Barrett and Brown established that the interest rate on mortgages under the program might
reach 8–7/8 per cent and that HUD was not required to buy any specific total amount of mortgage loans. Barrett
also explained that the HUD secretary could terminate the program completely, in advance of its one-year expiration
date, if he felt it were no longer needed.
Objections
Thomas L. Ashley (D Ohio), a key House figure in housing affairs, was the only member to speak against the Senate
amendment lowering the interest rate in the bill. “Let us face the fact that what we are doing here is coming up with
a housing subsidy program for the more affluent in our society,” he insisted.
The amendment was a “real Robin Hood amendment, except that it works in reverse,” Ashley complained, by using
the tax dollars of moderate-income families to subsidize interest for families in the top 20 per cent income brackets.
“Thus, we have before us a bill that is calculated to bail out an industry…by helping people who probably should not
get help,” he concluded.
Parren J. Mitchell (D Md.) also complained that the hill would do little for urban housing problems because it was
slanted to new construction of one- to four-family homes. Mitchell, who represents Baltimore, argued that the
construction industry did not build single-family homes in large urban centers.
Others said the bill would not solve the housing industry' s problems, but that it should provide some limited relief.
“It can help a little,” commented Reuss. “I do not think any of us want to oversell it.”
To speed departures for the White House, the House then approved the bill by a quick voice vote, completing
8/10/09 1:58 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 6http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1225053&type=hitlist&num=2
To speed departures for the White House, the House then approved the bill by a quick voice vote, completing
congressional action.
Document Citation
"Congress Votes Emergency Mortgage Aid." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal74-1225053.
Originally published in CQ Almanac 1974 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1975).
http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal74-1225053 (accessed August 10, 2009).
Document ID: cqal74-1225053
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal74-1225053
© 1975, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
