7/2/09 3:07 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 14http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224507&type=hitlist&num=8
Pensions and Retirement: General
2006 Pension Overhaul Law
RequiresFull Funding of Private
Plans
2004 Corporations Get Pension Relief
2003 Help for Pension Plans Delayed
2002 Pension Security Bills Falter
1997 Other Labor-Related Measures
Considered in 1997
1994 Law Enacted To Crack Down On
Underfunded Pensions
1994 Congress Considers Pension Bills
1993 House OKs Legislation To Scale
Back ERISA
1992 Employee Retirement income
Security Act (ERISA) Reform Falls
to Veto Threats
1991 Employee Retirement Income
Security Act (ERISA) Attacked for
Complexity, Loopholes
1988 Reversions, Portable Pensions
1987 Congress Acts to Shore Up
Pension Protection
1978 D.C. Pensions Bill Vetoed
1974 Congress Clears Bill to Regulate
Pensions
1973 Senate Approves Federal
Standards for Pension Plans
1973 Presidential Statement to
Congress: Nixon's Pension Reform
1972 Teachers' Pensions
1972 Finance Committee Reports
Gutted Private Pension Bill
1970 Pension Plans
1970 Pension Plan Investment
1968 Pension Plans
1965 Private Pension Plans
1962 Congress Amends Welfare-
Pension Plan Law
1960 Self-Employed Retirement
1958 Self-Employed Retirement
Pensions and Retirement: Railroad
Industry
Congress Clears Bill to Regulate Pensions
An article from CQ Almanac 1974
Document Outline
Highlights
Major Innovation
Criticisms
Lobbying
Legislative History
Provisions
Title I—Employee Benefit Rights
Title II—IRS Rules
Title III—General Provisions
Title IV—Termination Insurance
Background
1973 Action
1974 House Committee Action
Ways and Means Provisions, Views
Rule Granted
House Floor Action
Conference Report
Final Action
Features
President Ford on Labor Day signed into law HR 2 (PL 93 - 406 ) to
establish minimum federal standards for private pension plans.
Born out of frustration over pension benefits lost due to bankruptcies, mergers
and occasionally unscrupulous employers. HR 2, one of the major pieces of
legislation of the 93rd Congress, established minimum standards to ensure a
worker the right to at least part of his pension.
The product of seven years of congressional effort, it represented the first
federal effort at regulating private pension plans. It was estimated that
between 23-million and 35-million workers in the United States were currently
covered under private pension plans having assets totaling at least $150-
billion.
Highlights
The bill did not require companies to establish pension plans but if a firm did
operate one, or was planning to establish one, it would have to follow certain
federal standards. Generally, all employees 25 and over with one year of
experience would have to be enrolled in the plan. The employer could choose
one of three alternative vesting formulas that guaranteed an employee to at
least part of his pension benefits after he had served for a certain period of
time, whether or not he continued to work for the same company until retirement.
To ensure that pension funds would contain enough money to pay out benefits, HR 2 also contained minimum
funding standards and established a federally run pension plan termination insurance corporation to guarantee the
payment of benefits in the event of a bankruptcy. The bill also established rules that must be followed by pension
fund trustees.
Major Innovation
A major innovation was a provision allowing an individual not covered by a pension plan to establish his own
retirement account that could qualify for special tax treatment. The bill raised the amounts that self-employed
 
7/2/09 3:07 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 14http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224507&type=hitlist&num=8
retirement account that could qualify for special tax treatment. The bill raised the amounts that self-employed
persons could contribute, on a tax-deductible basis, to their own pension funds and limited the level of benefits that
high-salaried personnel could receive.
Criticisms
Although generally supported, the bill was criticized by some members of Congress. Michael J. Harrington (D Mass.)
pointed out the lack of a mandatory portability provision to allow employees to transfer their pension benefit credits
from one employer to another. “While this legislation does remove some of the restrictions hampering full freedom of
employment, it does not entirely free an employee from the need to stay at one place of employment for a certain
length of time…in order to have his credits vested,” he said.
James M. Collins (R Texas) said the federal government “should not enter into the private field of pensions” at all
because federal interference would lead to government control of private pension plans.
Lobbying
Lobbying on the bill was intensive. The bill was supported by the AFL-CIO, the United Auto Workers and the United
Steelworkers of America. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce led many business interests in opposition to some of the
proposed standards in the bill. The American Medical Association and the American Bankers Association
successfully lobbied for the raise in the maximum tax deductible amount to be taken by self-employed persons for
their retirement.
Legislative History
Legislative action on HR 2 was unusually complicated. The Senate passed its version Sept. 19, 1973, after the
Senate Finance and Labor and Public Welfare Committees got together and worked out a compromise bill.
The House Education and Labor Committee Oct. 2, 1973, reported its version of pension reform legislation (HR 2)
without tax provisions, which were under the jurisdiction of the Ways and Means Committee. The Ways and Means
Committee considered that it also had jurisdiction over certain of the other aspects of pension reform covered by HR
2. On Feb. 21, 1974, it reported its version (HR 12855) covering tax incentives, vesting, participation and funding.
The Education and Labor Committee Feb. 19 approved a second bill (HR 12906) containing identical provisions on
vesting, participation and funding as well as other provisions of HR 2 which dealt with areas not covered in the
Ways and Means Committee bill. The two bills were offered as a joint substitute for HR 2 when the bill came to the
House floor. The substitute was adopted and the bill passed by the House Feb. 28.
Provisions
As cleared by Congress, HR 2:
Found that “the continued well-being and security of millions of employees and their dependents are directly affected”
by pension plans; found many pension plans lacking in providing employee information and adequate safeguards.
Declared it to be national policy to protect interstate commerce, the federal taxing power and private pension plan
participants by establishing standards for vesting—that is, guaranteeing a worker the right to at least part of his pension
whether or not he worked for the sponsoring company until  his retirement—and minimum funding and by requiring plan
termination insurance.
Title I—Employee Benefit Rights
Exemptions
Exempted pension plans from coverage under Title I if they were government plans, church plans not qualifying for
special tax treatment, plans maintained solely for complying with workmen's compensation laws or unemployment
compensation laws, plans maintained outside the United States primarily for nonresident aliens, excess-benefit plans, or
union plans and plans that did not qualify for special tax treatment and did not involve employer contributions.
Reporting and Disclosures
Required employers to provide each employee covered by the pension plan with a summary description of the plan and
any modifications of the plan in a manner that readily could be understood by the average participant; required that each
employee be given an annual financial report stating assets and liabilities in the pension fund and changes in the net
assets available for plan benefits, including details of revenues and expenses for the year.
Required the plan administrator to submit to the secretary of labor the annual plan report, plan descriptions and
modifications of the plan.
7/2/09 3:07 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 14http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224507&type=hitlist&num=8
Authorized the secretary to reject a filed report if he determined that the report was incomplete; if the report later was
still incomplete, the secretary could have a special audit made or bring civil action for appropriate relief for the plan
participants.
Required a plan administrator to make available upon request a statement of the participant's total accrued benefits and
his nonforfeitable benefits.
Required reporting and disclosure provisions to take effect on Jan. 1, 1975, unless the plan year ended after that time,
in which case the effective date would be the beginning of the new plan year.
Participation
Required employers to enroll all  employees 25 and older with one year of service in the pension plan; if a plan provided
for immediate full vesting, the employer could require the employee to have three years of service before enrollment;
stipulated that employees who began service before they were 25 could have three years of that service credited
toward vesting when they turned 25.
Prohibited a plan from excluding an employee because he was too old but allowed defined-benefit plans, those that paid
specified benefits, to exclude employees who began their employment within five years of reaching the normal
retirement age.
Set the effective date for participation standards for new plans at the beginning of the plan year after the bill was
enacted; for plans already in effect, the effective date was set for the beginning of the plan year commencing after Dec.
31, 1975.
Provided that collective bargaining contracts in existence on Jan. 1, 1974, could be reopened solely for the purposes of
coming into compliance with the standards outlined in the bill.
Vesting
Allowed employers to choose one of three alternatives for vesting:
1. At least 25 per cent vesting at the end of five years, increasing by 5 per cent in each of the following five years
and by 10 per cent in each of the next five years so that the employee was fully vested at the completion of 15
years.
2. Full vesting at completion of 10 years of service with no vesting until then.
3. At least 50 per cent vesting when an employee's age and years of service totaled 45, increasing 10 per cent
each succeeding year until full vesting was reached—the Rule of 45; stipulated that, under the Rule of 45, an
employee with 10 years of service must be 50 per cent vested even if his age and years of service did not total 45.
Allowed, for vesting purposes, a plan to ignore service performed before Jan. 1, 1971, unless the employee had at least
three years of service after Dec. 31, 1970; the purpose of the provision was to avoid requiring employers to provide
retroactive vesting for employees who already had terminated their service.
Stipulated that pension plans must pay 50 per cent of a retired employee's pension to his surviving spouse unless the
employee specifically waived that right; stipulated that pension plans providing for early retirement need not provide for
joint and survivor payments unless the employee so requested within a specified time period.
Funding
Required that normal costs of administering a pension plan be funded currently.
Required plans not in effect on the effective day of the bill to amortize their past service costs in equal installments over
30 years.
Required plans already in effect and multi-employer plans to amortize their past service costs in equal installments over
40 years.
Allowed the secretary of labor to waive funding requirements and to grant an additional 10-year amortization period to
companies that would suffer financial hardships by complying with the minimum funding standards.
Subjected employers who failed to comply with the minimum funding standards to a 5 per cent excise tax; a 100 per
cent excise tax would be imposed if the deficiency were not corrected.
Made the funding standards for plans adopted after Jan. 1, 1974, applicable in the first plan year after HR 2 became
effective; made the funding standards effective on Jan. 1, 1976, for plans already in existence; made funding standards
for pension plans subject to collective bargaining effective after expiration of the latest agreement or Jan. 1, 1981,
whichever was earlier.
7/2/09 3:07 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 14http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224507&type=hitlist&num=8
Fiduciary Standards
Defined a fiduciary as any person exercising power of control, management or disposition over a pension fund's assets.
Required a fiduciary to act only to the benefit of the plan participants and their beneficiaries; required a fiduciary to
exercise his duties according to the “prudent man” rule, that is, “with the care, skill, prudence and diligence under the
circumstances then prevailing that a prudent man acting in a like capacity and familiar with such matters would use in
the conduct of an enterprise of a like character and with like aim.”
Prohibited a fiduciary from dealing with pension funds for his own account, from receiving kickbacks, from participating in
any transaction with a party having adverse interests to those of the participants, from receiving personal consideration
from any party dealing with the fund and from transferring property from the fund or acquiring property for the fund from
any party-in-interest, even for adequate compensation or payment; allowed certain exemptions from these prohibitions.
Prohibited a fiduciary from acquiring or holding qualified employer securities or real property if its value exceeded 10 per
cent of the fair market value of the pension fund assets; prohibited the acquisition or holding of any real property or
employer securities that were not qualified.
Required fiduciaries to diversify pension fund investments.
Prohibited anyone from becoming a fiduciary for a pension fund for five years after conviction for a crime or five years
after imprisonment, whichever was later.
Made fiduciaries liable for any loss to the plan occurring because the fiduciary standards were disregarded; made
parties-in-interest who violated a prohibited transaction liable for up to 5 per cent of the amount involved in the
transaction.
Enforcement and Administration
Set maximum criminal penalties of $5,000 and one year imprisonment for individuals violating the reporting and
disclosure regulations; raised the fine to $100,000 for violation by a corporation or other entity.
Allowed plan participants or beneficiaries to bring civil suit to recover benefits due under the plan, to clarify rights to
receive benefits and to seek relief from violations of the fiduciary standards.
Authorized such sums as may be needed by the secretary of labor to carry out his duties under the act.
Required the secretary of labor to report annually to Congress on the administration of Title I.
Title II—IRS Rules
Amended the Internal Revenue Code to contain the Title I provisions on participation, vesting, funding and fiduciary
standards.
Plans of the Self-Employed
Raised the tax deductible amount that a self-employed person could contribute to his own pension plan to the lesser of
15 per cent of annual earnings or $7,500, from the lesser of 10 per cent of annual earnings or $2,500; allowed low-
income, self-employed persons to receive tax deductions for pension plan contributions of $750 or 100 per cent of
earned income, whichever was less.
Stipulated that self-employed persons could count no more than $100,000 of their earned income in computing pension
benefits or contributions for themselves.
Individual Retirement Accounts
Allowed an individual not covered by a pension plan, a government plan or certain types of annuity plans to establish an
individual retirement account; allowed employers and unions to establish such accounts in behalf of individuals.
Allowed a person maintaining an individual retirement account to receive tax deductions for contributions to the account
of the lesser of 15 per cent of earned income or $1,500.
Stipulated that benefits could not be withdrawn from an individual retirement account before age 59 1/2 without tax
penalty; required benefits payment to begin by age 70 1/2.
Portability
7/2/09 3:07 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 14http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224507&type=hitlist&num=8
Allowed employees leaving a job to place their vested pension benefits in an individual retirement account; the account
would not be taxable until  benefits were paid out upon retirement; stipulated that such an account must be established
within 60 days after the employer distributed the vested pension benefits to the employee.
Allowed the employee to reinvest his individual retirement account in the pension plan furnished by a new employer, if
the new employer consented and if the individual retirement account consisted only of assets and their earnings
transferred from the previous pension plan.
Contribution, Benefit Limitations
Limited contributions to profit-sharing plans and money-purchase plans to 25 per cent of an employee's annual
compensation or $25,000, whichever was less.
Restricted annual pension benefits that could be paid to high-salaried employees to $75,000 or 100 per cent of the
employee's average compensation for his highest three years of earning, whichever was less.
Allowed such benefits to be adjusted by the cost of living.
Allowed the maximum benefit to be paid only to employees who had 10 or more years of service, with the amount of
the benefit adjusted downward if an employee began to collect benefits before age 55.
Made the limits on contributions and benefits effective after Dec. 31, 1975, but allowed persons who had been active
plan participants on Oct. 2, 1973, to receive more than $75,000 in annual benefits so long as the amount received did
not exceed 100 per cent of compensation on Oct. 2, 1973.
Other Tax Provisions
Amended existing tax regulations regarding lump-sum distributions of pension benefits to tax the amount of the lump-
sum attributable to pre-1974 service as capital gains, and to tax the amount attributable to post-1973 service as
ordinary income subject to a 10-year averaging.
Established an office of assistant commissioner in the Internal Revenue Service to administer tax law relating to
pension plans and exempt organizations; authorized in each fiscal year an amount equal to the revenues from the
private foundation investment income taxes if the rate of that tax were 2 per cent plus an additional $30-million or an
amount equal to the private foundation investment income tax revenues, whichever was greater.
Title III—General Provisions
Jurisdiction
Required plan administrators seeking tax consideration for their pension plans to file with the Internal Revenue Service
and the Labor Department information regarding the plan's funding, vesting and participation provisions.
Authorized the Internal Revenue Service to certify that such a plan met the minimum requirements outlined in the
legislation; allowed the secretary of labor to intervene with the Internal Revenue Service on participation, vesting and
funding matters upon petition by plan participants.
Authorized the Internal Revenue Service to audit plans receiving tax consideration; limited the secretary of labor's
authority to individual benefit matters.
Authorized the secretary of labor to bring court action to ensure compliance with the minimum standards for any plans
that did not receive tax consideration.
Joint Task Force
Authorized the staffs of the House Ways and Means Committee, the House Education and Labor Committee, the Senate
Finance Committee and the Senate Labor and Public Welfare Committee to carry out the duties of the Joint Pension
Task Force.
Required the task force to study the three vesting alternatives in the bill to determine the extent of discrimination among
age groups, to study the means of providing portability, to study the treatment of small employers under the plan
termination insurance program and to study the effects of pre-empting state pension laws; required the task force to
report their findings to the four congressional committees within two years of enactment.
Required the four congressional committees to report to Congress by Dec. 31, 1976, on federal, state and local
government pension plans.
Title IV—Termination Insurance
7/2/09 3:07 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 14http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224507&type=hitlist&num=8
Guaranty Corporation
Established a Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation within the Department of Labor, directed by the secretaries of labor,
commerce and the Treasury; appointed the secretary of labor as chairman of the corporation.
Established a seven-member advisory committee to the corporation to be appointed by the President upon the
recommendation of the board of directors; required the advisory committee members to serve for staggered three-year
terms and to meet at least six times a year.
Required the corporation to assist individuals in establishing their retirement accounts and in transferring vested benefits
to an individual account upon leaving a job.
Authorized the corporation to borrow up to $100-million from the federal Treasury to begin operations.
Premiums
Made the purchase of insurance mandatory for pension plans receiving tax consideration or those not receiving tax
consideration that have met the minimum standards for five years; insurance was not made mandatory for self-
employed pension plans or for plans established by professional service organizations that have fewer than 26 plan
participants.
Set the premium for the first year at $1 per participant in a single-employer plan and 50¢ per participant in a multi-
employer plan; allowed plans in the second year to pay a premium based on a complicated formula so long as the
premium was not less than half of what would have been paid under the per capita count; allowed the corporation to set
the premiums in subsequent years.
Procedures
Authorized the secretary of labor to terminate a plan if the plan was not meeting the minimum funding standards and
was unable to pay benefits.
Guaranteed, if a terminated plan's assets were insufficient to pay owed benefits, the payment of vested benefits; limited
such payments to the actuarial equivalent of the lesser of $750 monthly or 100 per cent of the employee's average
wages paid in his highest paid five consecutive years.
Made employers liable for up to 30 per cent of their net worth for benefits paid out under the insurance; required that
employers be able to buy insurance to protect against such liability.
Background
The remarkable growth of pension plans in the postwar era led Congress in 1958 to pass a bill, the Welfare and
Pension Plans Disclosure Act, requiring plan administrators to file annual reports on the structure and operations of
the funds. (Congress and the Nation Vol. I, p. 604)
The act did not contain provisions for vesting of pension rights which guarantees a worker the right to at least part
of his pension whether or not he continues to work for the sponsoring company until retirement. Thus, under
existing practice, employees often lost all pension rights when they switched jobs. Eligible recipients also were not
protected when improperly capitalized pension funds went bankrupt.
The Nixon administration in 1971 proposed minimum vesting standards for private pension plans. It also requested
tax deductions for contributions to retirement funds made by the self-employed. A special House Banking and
Currency Committee task force and Senate Labor and Public Welfare Labor Subcommittee in 1971 also conducted
lengthy surveys of the issue.
The Senate Labor and Public Welfare Committee in 1972 reported a bill providing for the first comprehensive
regulation of private pension plans and requiring vesting of rights after eight years of service. The bill was then
referred to the Finance Committee which argued that the bill came under its jurisdiction because it contained
provisions relating to the Internal Revenue Code. The Finance Committee reported the bill stripped of its major
provisions, providing mainly for stiffening of existing federal standards for the selection and conduct of pension plan
administrators. There was no further action on the proposal. (1972 Almanac p. 151)
1973 Action
In 1973 the Senate Finance and Labor and Public Welfare Committees were able to get together on a pension
reform measure. (Details, 1973 Almanac p. 341)
The Senate bill Sept. 19 was unanimously added as an amendment to a minor House-passed tax bill (HR 4200) in
an unsuccessful effort to speed House action on the legislation. A major goal of the labor lobby, the bill gave any
employee with five years of consecutive service with the same employer an indisputable right to 25 per cent of his
7/2/09 3:07 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 14http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224507&type=hitlist&num=8
employee with five years of consecutive service with the same employer an indisputable right to 25 per cent of his
earned pension benefits. After 15 years on the job he would be entitled to full benefits on retirement.
The Senate-passed bill also set requirements on minimum funding levels for pension plans to ensure that they
contained enough money to satisfy benefits payments due retired employees. Firms with pension funds were
required to join a federally administered insurance program which would guarantee payment of pensions to retirees
whose pension funds had become bankrupt or been cancelled. For employees who changed jobs, the bill authorized
a voluntary system between employers for transferring pension rights of employees who changed jobs (portability).
For self-employed persons and professionals, the bill would establish new tax incentives to put aside money toward
retirement. These provisions expanded 1962 legislation known as the “Keogh law” after its sponsor, former Rep.
Eugene J. Keogh (D N.Y. 1937–67). (Congress and the Nation Vol. I, p. 1324; Congress and the Nation Vol. II, p.
151)
The administration April 11 had proposed a more modest bill than HR 4200. The administration plan called for the
new tax incentives but did not provide for portability or for a federally administered insurance program. The
administration Oct. 2 signalled that it was lukewarm about the Senate-passed bill but did not oppose it outright.
The House Education and Labor Committee reported its version of pension reform legislation (HR 2—H Rept 93
–533). Whereas the Senate bill established one standard method of vesting, HR 2 offered three alternatives. The
House bill did not include the optional portability feature contained in HR 4200 and did not contain tax provisions. At
session's end, the Ways and Means Committee was drafting another bill containing tax provisions. Claiming that it
also should have jurisdiction over vesting, participation and funding, the committee also planned to include its own
version of provisions covering those areas.
1974 House Committee Action
Final House committee action on pension reform in 1974 was unusually complicated. First, on Feb. 5, the Ways and
Means Committee reported a bill (HR 12481—H Rept 93 –779) containing tax incentive provisions not included
in HR 2, the 1973 Education and Labor Committee bill. Because the two committees disagreed about jurisdiction,
HR 12481 also contained requirements for minimum vesting and funding standards identical to those in HR 2. It did
not contain provisions establishing minimum fiduciary standards and plan termination insurance which were included
in HR 2.
Originally, acting Ways and Means Committee Chairman Al Ullman (D Ore.) planned to offer HR 12481 as an
amendment to HR 2 when the bill came to the floor. However, after HR 12481 was reported, Ullman and John H.
Dent (D Pa.), chairman of the Education and Labor General Labor Subcommittee, came to a new agreement on
presentation of pension reform legislation to the House.
Under the new agreement, a Ways and Means Committee bill and an Education and Labor Committee bill were to
be offered on the floor as a joint substitute for HR 2. Accordingly, the Education and Labor Committee Feb. 19
approved a new bill (HR 12096) which was never formally reported which contained HR 2's pension termination
insurance program with revisions to make the provisions conform to the Ways and Means bill. The Ways and
Means Committee Feb. 21 reported a new bill (HR 12855—H Rept 93 –807) which amended tax laws relating
to retirement funds. The bill was essentially the same as HR 12481 but contained technical revisions to make it
conform with the new Education and Labor Committee bill. Both new bills contained identical provisions relating to
vesting, participation and funding. Concurrent jurisdiction for these three features was given to the Labor
Department and the Treasury Department.
Ways and Means Provisions, Views
Following are the major provisions and committee views on HR 12481. They were essentially the same as the
provisions and views on HR 12855 which differed in only technical respects.
Participation. HR 12481 would require that all employees after age 25 with one year of service be included in a
pension plan. If a plan provided full vesting immediately upon participation, an employer would be permitted to
require three years of service before making employee participation mandatory.
Vesting. The bill allowed employers to choose among three minimum standards of vesting:
At least 25 per cent vesting at the end of five years service, increasing by 5 per cent in each of the following five years
and by 10 per cent in each of the next five years, so that the employee was fully vested upon completion of 15 years
service.
Full vesting at the completion of 10 years service, with no vesting until  then.
At least 50 per cent vested when an employee's age and years of service total 45, increasing 10 per cent each
succeeding year until  full vesting was reached—the Rule of 45.
For retirement plans already in effect, employers would have five years to phase in the new vesting standards. In
general, as of 1976, 50 per cent of the employees' vested rights would have to be vested, and 10 per cent added in
7/2/09 3:07 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 14http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224507&type=hitlist&num=8
general, as of 1976, 50 per cent of the employees' vested rights would have to be vested, and 10 per cent added in
each of the next five years.
Funding. To ensure adequate funding of retirement plans, HR 12481 would require that normal costs of
administering the plan be financed currently. Pension plans not in effect on the effective date of the legislation were
required to amortize their past service costs in equal installments over 30 years. Plans already in existence and
multi-employer plans were allowed 40 years to amortize their past service costs.
Employers who failed to contribute the minimum amount required annually would be subject to a 5 per cent excise
tax on the unfunded amount. A 100 per cent excise tax would be imposed if the deficiency was not corrected.
The funding provisions would become effective for plans adopted after Jan. 1, 1974, in the first plan year after the
legislation became effective. For plans already in existence, minimum funding standards would not be effective until
Jan. 1, 1976. For plans subject to collective bargaining agreements, the standards would become effective after
expiration of the latest agreement or on Jan. 1, 1981, whichever came earlier.
Individual Retirement Accounts. The bill allowed individuals not covered by qualified retirement plans, government
plans or annuity plans established by tax exempt organizations to establish individual retirement accounts. Such an
individual could receive a tax deduction for up to 20 per cent of his earned income or $1,500, whichever was lesser,
each year. The individual retirement plan would be tax-exempt until the individual began to draw a pension from it.
The retirement account could be provided by an individual or through an employer or a labor union.
Self-Employed. The bill also would raise the minimum tax deductible amount that a self-employed person could
contribute to his own retirement fund to 15 per cent of his annual earned income or $7,500 whichever was lesser,
from 10 per cent or $2,500.
Contribution, Benefits Limits. Contributions to profit-sharing plans and money-purchase pension plans would be
limited to 25 per cent of an employee's annual compensation or $25,000, whichever was lesser.
The bill also would restrict the annual pension benefits that could be paid to high-salaried employees to 100 per cent
of the employee's average compensation for his highest three years of earnings or $75,000, whichever was lesser.
The benefits could be adjusted upwards by cost-of-living increases. The maximum benefit could only be paid to
employees who had 10 or more years of service, with the amount of the benefit adjusted downward if an employee
began to collect benefits before age 55.
The committee also wrote into the bill a “grandfather” clause that would allow any employee entitled to pension
benefits exceeding $75,000 on Oct. 2, 1973, to receive an annual benefit that did not exceed his annual
compensation as of Oct. 2, 1973.
An amendment offered to lower the limit to $60,000 failed on a 9–14 vote.
Lump-Sum Distributions. The bill would amend existing tax regulations regarding lump-sum distributions of
pension benefits. The amount of the lump sum attributable to pre-1974 service was to be taxed as capital gains; the
amount attributable to post-1973 service was to be taxed as ordinary income subject to a 10-year averaging.
Salary Reduction Plans. HR 12481 would require the secretary of the treasury to withdraw proposed regulations
providing that amounts contributed to a retirement plan by an employer in return for a reduction in an employee's
compensation were to be considered taxable income to the employee. Saying that the regulations raised “major
issues of tax policy,” the committee instructed that no other salary reduction regulations could be proposed before
Jan. 1, 1975, or issued in final form before March 16, 1976.
Administration. HR 12481 would set up an office of assistant commissioner within the Internal Revenue Service for
employee plans and for exempt organizations to administer the tax laws relating to pension plans. The bill would
authorize appropriations of $20-million for the new office in fiscal 1974 and of $70-million for each fiscal year
thereafter.
Views
The committee ordered HR 12481 reported by voice vote. In its report, the committee said HR 12481 was designed
to increase the number of persons participating in pension plans, to ensure that participants did not lose their
benefits and to make tax laws governing pension plans fairer. “The bill continues to rely primarily on the tax laws to
secure needed improvements in pension and related plans,” the committee wrote. “In general, it retains the tax
incentives granted under present law for the purpose of encouraging the establishment of plans which contain
socially desirable provisions. However, it also improves the effectiveness of these tax incentives by extending or
increasing them in certain cases where this is warranted and by pruning them where they have given rise to
problems.”
The committee estimated that the vesting standards could involve an annual loss to the U.S. Treasury of $265-
million after 1975, but “probably the revenue loss will be only about half this amount.” Increases in the amount of
tax-deductible contributions that could be made to pension plans would cost the Treasury another $460-million a
year when fully effective, figured at 1973 income levels. The committee could not estimate what effect minimum
funding standards would have on federal revenues.
In supplemental views, James C. Corman (D Calif.) and Sam Gibbons (D Fla.) said HR 12481 was “by no means the
final answer to the vast array of issues relating to the pension system. In fact there is a great and pressing need for
7/2/09 3:07 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 9 of 14http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224507&type=hitlist&num=8
final answer to the vast array of issues relating to the pension system. In fact there is a great and pressing need for
further action in such areas as… 1) placing additional limits on the use of pension and profit-sharing plans as tax
shelters, and 2) reassessing the relation of the Social Security System to the private pension system and the costs
and benefits of the government roles in each one.”
It is “clear,” the two said, “that one of the greatest reasons for excessive executive salaries is the tax avoidance
which can be managed by earmarking large portions of these salaries for pension or profit-sharing plans. With some
executive salaries hovering at the $100,000 to $300,000 level, it's easy to see why these executives put up such a
strong resistance to any limitation on tax deductible contributions to their pension funds.”
Rule Granted
The Rules Committee Feb. 19 by voice vote granted a complicated rule for floor consideration of HR 2. The rule (H
Res 896) provided that HR 12855 and HR 12481 could be offered as a combined substitute for HR 2.
The Education and Labor Committee portion of the substitute was granted an open rule, allowing floor amendments
to be offered to it. The Ways and Means Committee portion was granted a closed rule, although the rule would
permit the introduction of amendments pertaining to tax deductions for the self-employed.
House Floor Action
The House Feb. 28 passed HR 2 by a 375–4 recorded vote. Passage came after the House by voice vote adopted
slightly amended versions of the revised Ways and Means and Education and Labor Committee bills (HR 12855, HR
12906) as a combined substitute for HR 2 as reported. (Vote 37, p 14-H)
Debate in the House stretched over three days (Feb. 26–28). Although debate was sometimes intense and many
technical and minor amendments were adopted, the House rejected all major efforts to amend the bill.
The first floor fight came before the pension bill was even brought to the floor. During consideration of the rule, B. F.
Sisk (D Calif.) offered a motion to “move the previous question,” which would have had the effect of cutting off any
opportunity of amending the rule. John N. Erlenborn (R Ill.) asked that the motion be defeated so that the House
could determine whether it wanted the Treasury Department or the Labor Department to administer the bill's
provisions relating to vesting and funding standards. HR 2 provided for dual jurisdiction.
Under terms of the rule, no amendments could be offered to sections of the Ways and Means bill that placed such
jurisdiction within the Treasury Department. Members wishing to rid the bill of the dual jurisdiction would have been
forced to abolish the Labor Department's jurisdiction unless the rule could be amended.
However, the House Feb. 26 voted, 331–53, for the Sisk motion, thus cutting off the chance to amend the rule. The
rule was then adopted, 373–7. (Votes 27 28 p. 12-H)
Dual Jurisdiction. After completion of general debate, Bill  Archer (R Texas) Feb. 27 offered an amendment to place
all jurisdiction for vesting and funding standards within the Treasury Department. Joint jurisdiction between the
Labor and Treasury Departments “will unnecessarily and…foolishly increase the costs and administrative burdens
falling on all pension plans,” Archer said. Archer's amendment was rejected on a 111–158 teller vote.
Plan Termination Insurance. Contending that it would be “unreasonable” to “give to an appointee of the President
the sole power of deciding what to do” with the assets of the termination insurance program, John E. Erlenborn (R
Ill.) offered an amendment to transfer jurisdiction of the program from the Labor Department to a private
government-operated insurance corporation. The amendment would have removed jurisdiction for the program from
the secretary of labor and two Labor Department officials to a nine-member board of directors; the secretary of labor
would continue to serve as chairman of that corporation.
John H. Dent (D Pa.), chairman of the Education and Labor General Labor Subcommittee and floor manager of the
bill, urged that the administration of the insurance program be left with the secretary of labor at least until “we can
get some history” on the program. The amendment was rejected, 179–217. (Vote 34, p. 14-H)
William A. Steiger (R Wis.) then offered an amendment to make the governing board consist of the secretaries of
labor, commerce and treasury as was provided in the Senate version. That amendment was rejected by voice vote.
Self-Employed Plans. Henry S. Reuss (D Wis.) said his amendment to delete provisions increasing the maximum
allowable tax deduction for self-employed persons contributing to a pension plan to $7,500 would achieve at least
some equity. Pointing out that many of the self-employed persons affected by the provision were well-paid doctors
and lawyers, Reuss said: “For us to give a very substantial tax reduction to people in the upper five per cent of the
income receivers while forgetting all about the lower income two-thirds of the American families seems to me to be
a badly skewed sense of priorities.”
Martha W. Griffiths (D Mich.) opposed the amendment, saying that the increase was designed to aid a wide variety of
self-employed persons— “the man who runs the gas station, the man who runs the grocery store, the man who
runs the pharmacy, anyone who has a plumbing concern.” Reuss' amendment was rejected by voice vote.
Barber B. Conable Jr. (R N.Y.) next offered an amendment to adjust the $7,500 amount upwards by increases in the
7/2/09 3:07 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 10 of 14http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224507&type=hitlist&num=8
cost of living. That amendment was rejected on a 183–206 vote. (Vote 35, p. 14-H)
Gillis W. Long (D La.) then offered an amendment to reduce the maximum tax deductible amount allowed a self-
employed person to $6,000 from $7,500. The Long amendment was defeated, 63–323. (Vote 36, p. 14-H) As
passed, the provisions for self-employed persons were similar to those in HR 4200.
Portability. An amendment to incorporate the Senate-passed provision permitting voluntary portability was offered
by Herman Badillo (D N.Y.). Portability allowed a worker to transfer his pension credits from job to job. Accrued
pension rights established through vesting “become nothing more than a ball and chain by which older workers are
tied to inadequate and insecure jobs” if there was no provision for portability, Badillo said.
Erlenborn opposed the amendment, saying that “even the AFL-CIO…pointed out that cashing out a vested right and
moving it to another place will mean the employee ultimately will wind up with less of a pension than if he draws his
pensions from those several employers where he has vested rights.” Badillo's amendment was rejected by voice
vote.
Participation. The only major amendment adopted was offered by Bella S. Abzug (D N.Y.). It allowed persons below
age 25 with three years of ‘service to participate in pension plans as well as those 25 years of age with one year of
service’.
As passed, HR 2 contained the following major provisions:
Participation
Required that if a pension plan was offered, all employees 25 or older with one year of service and all employees under
age 25 with three years of service were to be included.
Permitted an employer to require three years of service before participation if a pension plan provided full funding
immediately upon participation.
Vesting
Allowed, employers operating pension plans to choose among three minimum standards of vesting:
1) At least 25 per cent vesting at the end of five years service, increasing by 5 per cent in each of the following five
years and by 10 per cent in each of the next five years so that the employee was fully vested upon completion of 15
years service.
2) Full vesting at the completion of 10 years service, with no vesting until then.
3) At least 50 per cent vested when an employee's age and years of service totaled 45, increasing 10 per cent each
succeeding year until full vesting was reached— the Rule of 45.
Gave employers with retirement plans already in effect five years to phase in the new vesting standards. In general, as
of 1976, 50 per cent of an employee's vested rights would have to be vested, with an additional 10 per cent added in
each of the next five years.
Funding
Required that normal costs of administering a pension plan be funded currently.
Required plans not in effect on the effective date of the legislation to amortize their past service costs in equal
installments over 30 years.
Required plans already in effect and multi-employer plans to amortize their past service costs in equal installments over
40 years.
Subjected employers who failed to contribute the minimum amount required annually to a 5 per cent excise tax; a 100
per cent excise tax would be imposed if the deficiency were not corrected.
Made the funding standards effective for plans adopted after Jan. 1, 1974, in the first plan year after, the legislation
became effective.
Made the funding standards effective on Jan. 1, 1976, for plans already in existence.
Made funding standards for pension plans subject to collective bargaining effective after expiration of the latest
agreement or Jan. 1, 1981, whichever was earlier.
Fiduciary Standards
7/2/09 3:07 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 11 of 14http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224507&type=hitlist&num=8
Required administrators of pension plans to give each plan participant a description of the pension plan and a summary
of the annual financial report.
Required that annual financial reports, including an audit, a summary of assets and liabilities, and a summary of loans
and leases in default be submitted to the secretary of labor.
Prohibited a fiduciary from dealing with pension funds for his own account, from participating in any transaction with a
party having adverse interests to those, of the participants, from receiving personal consideration from any party dealing
with the fund, from transferring property from the fund with less than adequate compensation or from acquiring property
for the fund with more than adequate compensation.
Required the fiduciary to diversify pension fund investments.
Plan Termination Insurance
Established within the Department of Labor a Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation to insure pension plans against the
loss of benefits due to termination of the plan.
Established a board of directors for the corporation consisting of the secretary of labor and two Labor Department
employees appointed by the secretary.
Set premium rates for single employer and multi-employer pension plans at a percentage of the excess of the existing
value of the plan's assured benefits over the plan's assets, and at a rate to be set by the board of directors times the
existing value of insured benefits.
Made the purchase of insurance mandatory for all pension plans subject to the minimum funding standards that had
more than 25 participants over a five-year period.
Allowable Tax Deductions
Allowed individuals not covered by qualified retirement plans, government plans or annuity plans established by tax
exempt organizations to establish individual retirement accounts. Such an individual could receive a tax deduction for up
to 20 per cent of his earned income or 81,500, whichever was lesser, each year. The individual retirement account
would be tax-exempt until  the individual began to draw a pension from it. The account could be provided by the
individual or through an employer or labor union.
Raised the maximum tax deductible amount that a self-employed person could contribute to his own pension fund to
$7,500 or 15 per cent of his annual earned income, whichever was lesser, from the existing $2,500 or 10 per cent.
Allowed self-employed low-income persons to make tax deductible contributions to a pension plan of 100 per cent of
earned income up to $750.
Limited contributions to profit-sharing plans and money-purchase pension plans to 25 per cent of an employee's annual
compensation or $25,000, whichever was lesser.
Restricted annual pension benefits that could be paid to high-salaried employees to 100 per cent of the employee's
average compensation for his highest three years of earnings or $75,000, whichever was lesser.
Allowed such benefits to be adjusted upwards by cost-of-living increases.
Allowed the maximum benefit to be paid only to employees who had 10 or more years of service, with the amount of
the benefit adjusted downward if an employee began to collect benefits before age 55.
Other Tax Provisions
Amended existing tax regulations regarding lump-sum distributions of pension benefits to tax the amount of the lump
sum attributable to pre-1974 service as capital gains, and to tax the amount attributable to post-1973 service as
ordinary income subject to a 10-year averaging.
Established an office of assistant commissioner within the Internal Revenue Service to administer tax law relating to
pension plans and exempt organizations; authorized $20-million for the new office in fiscal 1974 and $70-million for
each fiscal year thereafter.
Conference Report
House conferees filed their report on HR 2 (H Rept 93 –1280) Aug. 12, Senate conferees on Aug. 13 (S Rept 
93–1090).
Because the House version was an amalgamation of a bill considered by the House Education and Labor
7/2/09 3:07 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 12 of 14http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224507&type=hitlist&num=8
Because the House version was an amalgamation of a bill considered by the House Education and Labor
Committee and one presented by the Ways and Means Committee, House conferees were equally represented by
members of both committees. In an unusual procedure in the House-Senate conference, Education and Labor
Committee members presented the House position on labor-related issues, while Ways and Means Committee
members gave the House case on tax-related matters, although all House conferees were free to comment at any
time.
Participation, Vesting
Conferees agreed in substance to the House position on pension enrollment, stipulating that an employee could
participate in a pension plan if he were 25 and had one year of service. If a plan provided for 100 per cent
immediate vesting, the employer could require an employee to be at least 25 and have at least three years of
service before enrollment. Employees who began service before they were 25 could have up to three years of this
period of service credited toward vesting when they turned 25. The Senate version allowed participation if an
employee were 30 and had one year of service.
Conferees also agreed substantially with the House vesting plan, which permitted an employer to choose one of
three alternative methods. The alternative vesting plans an employer could choose were:
1. At least 25 per cent vesting at the end of five years, increasing by 5 per cent in each of the following five years
and by 10 per cent in each of the next five years so that the employee was fully vested at the completion of 15
years of service (graded vesting).
2. Full vesting at completion of 10 years of service with no vesting until then.
3. At least 50 per cent vested when an employee's age and years of service totaled 45, increasing by 10 per cent
each succeeding year until full vesting was reached—the Rule of 45.
Conferees made one change in the Rule of 45 originally adopted by the House by stipulating that an employee with
10 years of service must be 50 per cent vested even if his age and years of service did not total 45.
The Senate had provided for only graded vesting with the caveat that existing plans providing for full vesting after
10 years of service could remain in effect.
Minimum Funding
There were few major differences between the Senate and House versions regarding minimum funding requirements
to ensure that pension plans would be able to pay out benefits. Conferees agreed that normal costs of administering
retirement plans should be funded currently. Plans that were not in effect when HR 2 was enacted were required to
amortize their past service costs over 30 years. Existing plans and multi-employer plans were required to amortize
their past service costs over 40 years. The bill also allowed the secretary of labor to waive funding requirements for
companies that would suffer financial hardship by complying with the minimum funding standards.
Senate and House penalties for failure to comply were the same—a 5 per cent excise tax on the unfunded amount
plus imposition of a 100 per cent excise tax if the deficiency was not corrected.
Fiduciary Standards
Conferees agreed to a substitute provision for standards for pension plan fiduciaries or trustees—persons who
exercised control and management over pension plan assets. Fiduciaries were required to exercise their duties
according to the prudent man's judgment, that is, “with the care, skill, prudence and diligence under the
circumstances then prevailing that a prudent man acting in a like capacity and familiar with such matters would use
in the conduct of an enterprise of a like character and with like aim.”
Fiduciaries were also required to act only to the benefit of the plan participants and their beneficiaries. To avoid
large-scale losses, plan fiduciaries or trustees were required to diversify assets.
A plan trustee was also prohibited from entering into certain transactions including those where he dealt with 1) the
plan's account for his own interest or received a kickback, 2) with a party having adverse interests to those of the
plan and its participants and 3) where he sold pension plan property to or received property for the plan from any
party-in-interest (an employer, employee or certain shareholders) whether or not there was adequate compensation.
Termination Insurance
Conferees followed the Senate version for pension plan termination insurance to pay pension claims if the
sponsoring company went bankrupt or ran short of funds. The final version of HR 2, like the Senate bill, established
a Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation within the Department of Labor to be directed by the secretaries of labor,
commerce and the Treasury. The secretary of labor would be the chairman of the board.
During the first year after enactment of the bill, single employer plans would be required to pay $1 into the insurance
fund for each plan participant. Multi-employer plans would pay 50¢ for each participant. In succeeding years,
insurance premiums could be based on a complicated formula devised by the House that considered unfunded
vested benefits and total insured benefits.
The House version would have established the termination insurance corporation within the Department of Labor,
7/2/09 3:07 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 13 of 14http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224507&type=hitlist&num=8
The House version would have established the termination insurance corporation within the Department of Labor,
directed by the secretary of labor and two other members of the department. Premium rates under the House
version would have been determined by the formula that did not require a per capita rate in the initial year.
Plans generally covered under the act were required to be insured by the corporation. Pension benefits guaranteed
by the corporation in the event of a plan termination could not exceed 100 per cent of the average monthly
compensation received during the employee's highest paid consecutive five years or $750 a month, whichever was
less.
Portability
Neither the House nor Senate version established a mandatory portability system that would allow a worker to
transfer his pension benefit credits from one job to another. The Senate bill, however, had established a voluntary
system to be administered by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. Conferees agreed that a worker leaving
one job could transfer his vested pension benefits to a tax-free individual retirement account within 60 days. With
the permission of his next employer, the worker could then transfer the funds in his individual retirement account to
the pension plan of his new employer.
Self-Employed, Individual Accounts
Both the Senate and the House had agreed to raise the maximum tax deductible contribution that a self-employed
person could contribute to his own pension fund to the lesser of 15 per cent of annual earnings or $7,500.
Both bills allowed individuals not covered by tax-qualified, government or annuity pension plans to establish
individual retirement accounts. The House set the maximum tax deductible contribution to such an account at 20 per
cent or $1,500 of annual earnings, whichever was less. The Senate set the rate at 15 per cent or $1,500, whichever
was less. Conferees agreed with the Senate provision.
Jurisdiction
The question of which department—Labor or Treasury—would administer the various provisions of the long and
complicated act was also a major conference issue. The Senate version gave jurisdiction over vesting, funding and
participation solely to the Treasury Department but gave dual jurisdiction to the two departments for fiduciary
standards. The House version gave dual jurisdiction to the two departments for vesting, funding and participation but
placed sole responsibility for fiduciary standards in the Labor Department.
Conferees gave the two departments dual jurisdiction over vesting, funding and participation, but in such a manner
that duplication of effort would be avoided. When a pension plan sought special tax status, the plan administrator
was required to provide information on funding, vesting and participation to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) of
the Treasury Department and to the Department of Labor.
IRS was given the responsibility of determining whether the plan qualified, although the secretary of labor could
intervene in behalf of plan participants on matters of vesting, funding and participation. Tax-qualified plans would be
audited by IRS with the Labor Department generally limited to matters dealing with individual benefits. The Labor
Department would also participate in any IRS decision to disqualify a plan.
The Department of Labor was authorized to seek compliance through the courts on the vesting, funding and
participation standards of any plan that did not seek tax consideration. Both departments were given dual jurisdiction
for maintaining the fiduciary standards.
Final Action
House
The House Aug. 20 adopted the conference report, 407–2. Voting against were Republicans James M. Collins
(Texas) and Earl F. Landgrebe (Ind.). (Vote 364, p. 112-H)
Subsequent to adoption of the conference report, the House by voice vote adopted a resolution (H Con Res 609)
authorizing the clerk of the House to make corrections in the bill. By consent of the conferees, one of the
corrections deleted a controversial provision of the bill relating to integration of pension plan benefits with Social
Security. According to Al Ullman (D Ore.), the provision was deleted because several members had received
complaints that the provision would add significantly to the costs of pension plans.
Senate
The Senate adopted the conference report Aug. 22 on an 85–0 vote, completing congressional action. (Vote 360, p.
55-S)
Features
Pension Terms
Minimum funding standards require pension managers to put aside enough money to ensure payment of workers'
7/2/09 3:07 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 14 of 14http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224507&type=hitlist&num=8
Minimum funding standards require pension managers to put aside enough money to ensure payment of workers'
pensions.
Vesting guarantees a worker the right to at least part of his pension whether or not he continues to work for the
sponsoring company until retirement.
Plan termination insurance would protect workers' benefits against companies that go bankrupt.
Portability would allow employees to transfer pension benefit credits from one employer to another.
Fiduciary or trustee standards establish regulations for proper management of pension funds.
Document Citation
"Congress Clears Bill  to Regulate Pensions." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal74-1224507.
Originally published in CQ Almanac 1974 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1975).
http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal74-1224507 (accessed July 2, 2009).
Document ID: cqal74-1224507
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal74-1224507
© 1975, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
