7/2/09 3:09 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224967&type=hitlist&num=11
Federal, Subsidized or Low
Income Housing
1998 Three Years of Negotiations Yield
a Housing Bill That Compromise
Built
1997 No Consensus on Housing
Overhaul
1996 Public Housing Overhaul Bill Dies
1995 Bills Seek to Revamp Public
Housing
1994 HUD Gains Greater Leeway On
Property Disposals
1993 Low-Income Housing Measure
Clears
1991 No Agreement Reached On
Housing Funds
1991 Juggling the Demands of Space
and Housing
1976 Housing Bill: Public Housing
Program Revived
1974 First Major Housing Bill Since
1968 Enacted
1973 Administration Housing
Moratorium Comes Under Fire
1972 Low-Income Housing
1972 Housing Probe
1969 Housing Hearings
1968 Housing Bill Provides Home-
Buying, Riot, Other Aid
1967 U.S. Low-Income Housing Efforts
Stir Controversy
1965 Major Housing Legislation
Enacted
Housing Appropriations
Military and Veterans' Education,
Employment and Housing
First Major Housing Bill Since 1968 Enacted
An article from CQ Almanac 1974
Document Outline
Background
Provisions
Senate Committee Action
Committee Bill Provisions: Hud Housing Programs
Community Development and Planning
Miscellaneous Programs
Committee Views
Senate Floor Action
Debate
House Committee Action
Committee Bill Provisions: Community Development
Assisted Housing Programs
Mortgage Credit
Miscellaneous Programs
Committee Views
Other Views
House Floor Action
Conference Action
Final Action
Features
President Ford Aug. 22 signed into law an $11.1-billion housing bill (S 3066
—PL 93 - 383 ), the first major housing legislation since 1968. The bill
charted an entirely new course for the nation's housing and urban aid
programs.
The major provisions of the measure instituted a three-year, $8.6-billion
program of block grants for community development and established a new
rental assistance program (Section 23) for low- and moderate-income
Americans. The bill left communities free to use their block grants for a
variety of activities, but ruled out a strict special revenue-sharing approach by
imposing certain federal requirements for community development activities.
The new rental leasing program was expected to provide about 400,000 units
of newly constructed or rehabilitated housing. The Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD) strongly backed the new approach. The bill also
provided funding for the development of about 40,000 new units of conventional public housing.
Subject to future appropriations and the release of funds already available which had been withheld by HUD since
early 1973, the measure also would provide for new commitments through fiscal 1976 under the existing
homeownership (Section 235) and rental aid (Section 236) subsidy programs which had been suspended by the
Nixon administration. The two existing programs were authorized in the 1968 housing bill, the last major piece of
housing legislation to clear Congress. Only $75-million in new money would be authorized for the two programs.
The two-year continuation of the existing subsidy programs, branded ineffective and wasteful by the Nixon
administration, was House conferees' major concession to the Senate version of the bill. The Senate bill, approved
March 11, would have provided $500-million in new funds for the two programs.
The House version, passed June 20, was drafted to win the support of Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD) officials. HUD Secretary James T. Lynn had indicated that President Nixon would veto the
Senate version. While continuing the two existing programs through fiscal 1975 with no new funding, the House
version reserved almost all housing funds for the new rental aid (Section 23) program supported by HUD.
The House version also contained the community development block grant formula in almost the same form as the
final bill; unlike the Senate bill the House formula in effect diverted some federal aid from the inner cities to the
suburbs.
 
7/2/09 3:09 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224967&type=hitlist&num=11
House-Senate conferees were deadlocked during the first three weeks of the conference over the key differences
between the two versions of the legislation. The stalemate was critical because there was some feeling that if the
conferees could not reach agreement before the start of anticipated House impeachment proceedings, there would
be no housing bill in the 93rd Congress.
House conferees held adamantly to the basic structure of their bill, arguing that any major revisions in it would
guarantee a presidential veto and upset strong bipartisan support in the House for its version. The fact that
uncertainty over the future of housing and urban aid programs would continue without new legislation also placed
pressure on Senate conferees to compromise.
House conferees finally suggested that the Senate accept the House community development formula and the
House bill's emphasis on the Section 23 program. In exchange, they offered to support a modest continuation of the
existing subsidized housing programs, with new funding contingent on future appropriations. Senate conferees were
initially skeptical, but the compromise eventually was refined into the final version. Conferees reached agreement
two days before Nixon announced his resignation Aug. 8, making the impeachment proceedings which had fanned
pressure for speedy compromise unnecessary.
In case of a conference stalemate or other slowdown, both the Senate and House committees had readied
emergency legislation to extend housing and urban development programs through fiscal 1975 without change.
Such bills (S 3511, HR 14903) were reported, but final action on S 3066 made further consideration of them
unnecessary.
Background
Congress in 1972 had attempted to replace expiring programs with a comprehensive new housing act, but the
House Rules Committee killed the bill by refusing to grant a rule for floor consideration. (1972 Almanac p. 628)
Moratorium. On Jan. 8, 1973, the Nixon administration announced a moratorium on all new commitments for major
subsidized housing and urban programs in order to review what former HUD Secretary George Romney called “the
entire Rube Goldberg structure” of housing and urban development laws. The moratorium also included a temporary
suspension of interest subsidy programs for home ownership (section 235) and for rental and cooperative housing
(section 236) under the National Housing Act.
In addition, the administration's fiscal 1974 budget request did not include funds for community development
programs, scheduled to be phased out and replaced in fiscal 1975 by the President's proposed urban community
development revenue-sharing plan.
New Nixon Proposals. President Nixon Sept. 19 sent a message to Congress criticizing existing housing programs.
(Text, 1973 Almanac p. 81-A)
Nixon called existing housing programs highly inequitable, wasteful and discriminatory against low income families
because they denied them “the basic right to choose the house they will live in.” He charged that under the system
only a few low-income families—arbitrarily selected—could live in federally supported housing, while others were
ignored.
The President said that while some federal housing programs are impressive, “too many are monstrous, depressing
places—run down, overcrowded, crime-ridden, falling apart.”
Nixon told Congress he liked the idea of direct cash payments to the poor for housing, but wanted to wait until late
in 1974 or even 1975 to make a final decision. Meanwhile, he said in his message that he would like the authority to
experiment more widely with the approach, and that he would continue the moratorium on most federal housing
subsidy programs until then.
Also included in the package were several proposals and announcements of actions to ease the tight mortgage
market to encourage homeownership.
Nixon announced the end of a freeze on new commitments for one housing program, while Congress and the
administration studied the housing allowance plan. Nixon reinstated the Section 23 program, under which local
housing authorities leased federally approved, low-income housing projects to HUD usually for about seven years.
He also reinstated the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) program for low-income housing
financing.
1973 Congressional Action. The Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee spent most of 1973
revising the proposal killed by the House Rules Committee the year before, but the fact that the administration did
not deliver its housing proposal until late in the session precluded final action until 1974.
Congress in 1973 did clear a stopgap measure (H J Res 719—PL 93 -117) authorizing funds for basic federal
housing and urban development programs and extending Federal Housing Administration (FHA) authority to set
government-insured mortgage interest rates through Oct. 1, 1974. (1973 Almanac p. 424)
Provisions
7/2/09 3:09 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224967&type=hitlist&num=11
Following are the major provisions of S 3066 as signed into law:
Title I—Community Development
Consolidated 10 categorical urban development programs into a block grant community development program as of Jan.
1, 1975.
Authorized $2.5-biIlion in fiscal 1975, $2.95-billion in fiscal 1976 and $2.95-billion in fiscal 1977 for the block grant
program; authorized an additional $50-million in each of fiscal 1975–76 and $100-million in fiscal 1977 for transitional
community development needs; authorized open-ended sums for the categorical programs until  Jan. 1, 1975.
Entitled to automatic block grants communities within standard metropolitan statistical areas (SMSAs) as defined by the
Census Bureau which were 1) cities or twin cities with populations above 50,000 and 2) urban counties with populations
(excluding cities) of at least 200,000 which were authorized by state law to carry out housing and community
development programs.
Based the amount of the block grant on a three-part formula reflecting the ratio of a particular community's population,
extent of housing overcrowding and poverty (weighted twice) to the average figures for all similar communities.
In fiscal 1975, guaranteed localities with automatic entitlements to the greater of 1) one-third of the formula amount or
2) the average annual (“hold harmless”) amount it had received under categorical urban programs in fiscal 1968–72; in
fiscal 1976, guaranteed such localities the greater of two-thirds of the formula grant or the hold harmless amount; in
fiscal 1977, guaranteed such communities the greater of the full formula grant or the hold harmless amount.
In fiscal 1978–80, phased down the hold harmless amount (if greater than the formula entitlement) by thirds to the
formula level by fiscal 1980; required the HUD secretary to report to Congress by March 31, 1977, any
recommendations for changes in the allocation formula.
Allocated any remaining funds 1) first, to meet the hold harmless requirements for small communities within SMSAs
which had carried on either an urban renewal, Model Cities, housing code enforcement or neighborhood development
program during fiscal 1968–72, but which were not entitled to automatic block grants and 2) second, to all SMSAs on
the basis of the three-part formula; left allocation of specific grants to applicants within SMSAs under the second
category up to the HUD secretary's discretion.
Allocated 80 per cent of block grant funds to SMSA areas and 20 per cent to rural, non-SMSA areas; allocated funds in
rural areas 1) first, to communities qualifying for hold harmless treatment and 2) second, to states on the basis of the
three-part formula for discretionary grants to rural applicants.
Earmarked 2 per cent of appropriated funds for a discretionary fund for use by the HUD secretary; limited use of such
funds to projects under the new communities program, area-wide housing and urban development projects, innovative
projects, emergency needs caused by disasters and special grants to correct any inequities in the basic formula
distribution system; limited grants for emergency needs to 25 per cent of all grants in any one year.
Required, all communities applying for community development funds to submit an application 1) identifying community
development needs, 2) formulating a program to meet needs, 3) outlining a housing assistance plan, 4) showing
conformance with civil rights acts and 5) carrying assurances that citizens had an opportunity to participate in
formulation of the application.
Required the housing plan to 1) specify an annual goal for the number of housing units to be assisted 2) determine
assistance best suited to lower-income families, 3) indicate the size and type of housing projects needed, 4) indicate
how many assisted units would be newly constructed, rehabilitated or adequate existing housing and 5) specify the
general locations of proposed housing for lower-income families.
In addition, required cities and urban counties entitled to automatic entitlements to outline a three-year plan of
anticipated activities including programs designed to eliminate blight and provide improved community facilities and
services.
Specifically required communities seeking funds to certify to HUD that proposed programs would give maximum
feasible priority to activities benefiting low- or moderate-income families or aiding the prevention or elimination of slums
or urban blight.
Authorized the secretary to waive the application requirements for a community with population under 25,000 seeking a
grant for a single development activity.
Required the HUD secretary to approve applications for communities with automatic entitlements within 75 days unless
he determined that the applications were plainly inconsistent with or inappropriate for the community's needs or that
they violated the act or other laws; provided automatic approval if the secretary did not inform the applicant of specific
reasons for disapproval within 75 days.
Required the secretary of HUD to evaluate performance reports on community development programs annually.
Streamlined the provisions of the 1969 National Environmental Policy Act for community development.
7/2/09 3:09 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224967&type=hitlist&num=11
Allowed communities to use their grants for 1) general acquisition of land for public purposes, 2) construction or
improvement of public works facilities, neighborhood facilities, senior centers, water and sewer facilities, parks and
recreation facilities, flood and drainage facilities, street lights, parking facilities, solid waste disposal facilities and fire
protection facilities, 3) housing code enforcement, 4) slum clearance and renewal 5) historic preservation, 6) relocation
payments to individuals displaced by slum clearance, 7) planning and other activities; allowed use of grants to provide
health, social, welfare, education or other community services if funds were not available under other federal programs.
Authorized the secretary to guarantee bonds and other obligations which communities receiving grants issued to finance
the purchase of real property needed for development programs.
Title II—Assisted Housing
Authorized $1.225-billion in fiscal 1974–75 in new contract authority for conventional public housing and a new rental
leasing subsidy program (Section 23); earmarked $150-million of the new authority for the development of new public
housing and $75-million for development of conventional public housing.
Authorized the HUD secretary to enter into up to 40-year contracts with private developers or public housing agencies
who agreed to provide newly constructed, rehabilitated or adequate existing rental housing for moderate- and low-
income families under the Section 23 progoam.
Allowed the HUD secretary to make rental assistance payments under the Section 23 program for up to 100 per cent of
the units in any one project; allowed the secretary, however, to give preference to applicants limiting assisted units to 20
per cent per project if the project were not designed for the elderly or handicapped or had more than 50 units.
Limited each assistance payment to the difference between 15 and 25 per cent of a tenant's gross income and,
generally, an amount no more than 10 per cent above the fair market rental as determined by HUD; for large low-
income families or families with exceptional expenses, limited the tenant's share to 15 per cent of gross income.
Provided for annual adjustments in the Section 23 assistance contracts to reflect increases in operating and
maintenance costs, property tax and utility rates and fair market rental values.
Limited eligibility for assistance under the Section 23 program to families with income up to 80 per cent of the median
family income in a particular area; required that at least 30 per cent of the families assisted had income not exceeding
50 per cent of an area's median family income.
Gave owners of existing housing participating in the Section 23 program the right to select tenants, and public housing
agencies the sole right to evict those tenants.
Barred Section 23 assistance payments to owners for units which had been unoccupied for more than 60 days.
Increased the ceiling on operating subsidies to public housing agencies to $500-million in fiscal 1975 and $560-million
in fiscal 1976.
Required public housing tenants to pay a minimum rent equal to 5 per cent of their gross income or the amount of
welfare assistance earmarked for rent; limited any required increases in rent to $5 every six months.
Earmarked 20 per cent of all new public housing units for families with income below 50 per cent of the median income
in an area.
Extended the homeownership (Section 235) and rental assistance (Section 236) housing subsidy programs through
fiscal 1976; authorized $75-million in new contract authority for the Section 236 program in fiscal 1975 and open-ended
sums for the Section 235 program.
Limited eligibility for assistance under the Section 235 and Section 236 programs to families with income up to 80 per
cent of an area's median family income.
Earmarked at least 20 per cent of the new Section 236 contracts for housing for the elderly or handicapped and at least
10 per cent for rehabilitation of existing housing.
Generally, limited assistance payments under the Section 236 programs to the difference between 20 to 25 per cent of a
tenant's income adjusted by various deductions and basic rents determined by HUD; authorized the secretary to make
additional payments for families occupying up to 20 per cent of the assisted units in any one project.
Allocated at least 20 per cent, but no more than 25 per cent, of all housing assistance funds to rural areas; required the
secretary to allocate funds in conformance with local housing plans required under the community development
program.
In each of fiscal 1975–76, earmarked at least $15-million of the total housing authorization for the development of public
housing for Indians.
Authorized the secretary to borrow up to $800-million from the Treasury for unsubsidized loans to developers of housing
for the elderly and handicapped; made those living in units developed under the loan program (Section 202) eligible for
7/2/09 3:09 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224967&type=hitlist&num=11
for the elderly and handicapped; made those living in units developed under the loan program (Section 202) eligible for
assistance under the Section 23 rental leasing program.
Title III—Mortgage Credit
Extended regular Federal Housing Administration (FHA) mortgage insurance programs to June 30, 1977.
Extended the HUD secretary's authority to set flexible interest rates for FHA-backed mortgages to June 30, 1977.
Increased the maximum FHA mortgage amount for a single-family home to $45,000 from $33,000; increased the
maximum FHA home improvement loan to $10,000 from $5,000 for a single dwelling.
Required cash down payments for homes backed by FHA mortgages of 3 per cent of the sale price up to $25,000, an
additional 10 per cent on the price between $25,000 and $35,000 and an additional 20 per cent on the price above
$35,000.
Authorized the secretary to provide FHA guarantees on mortgages which were co-insured by the lending institution until
July 1, 1977.
Extended FHA mortgage insurance to medical group-practice facilities for the practice of osteopathy or podiatry.
Authorized the HUD secretary to insure, on an experimental basis until  June 30, 1976, mortgages with variable interest
rates designed to reflect expected increases or decreases in a family's income.
Authorized the secretary to pay to correct or reimburse owners for the repair of major defects posing a threat to life or
safety in housing insured by the federal government between Aug. 1, 1968, and Jan. 1, 1973; authorized similar
compensation for defects in housing subsidized under the Section 235 homeownership program indefinitely.
Title IV—Comprehensive Planning
Authorized $130-million in fiscal 1975 and $150-million in fiscal 1976 for grants to local and regional governments for
planning activities; required governments applying for assistance to develop housing and land-use plans.
Authorized $3.5-million in each of fiscal 1975–76 for training programs in urban management.
Title V—Rural Housing
Authorized the Farmers Home Administration (FmHA) to refinance debts which were at least five years old.
Increased the maximum FmHA rehabilitation loan to $5,000 from $3,500; increased total authority available for such
loans to $80-million from $50-million in fiscal 1975–77.
Increased total authority available for farm labor housing program grants to $80-million from $50-million in fiscal 1975–
77.
Authorized $1-million in each of fiscal 1975–77 for additional research on rural housing problems.
Increased the annual authority for assistance to rural families developing their own (“self-help”) housing to $10-million
from $5-million in each of fiscal 1975–77.
Expanded eligibility for FmHA assistance to rural communities with population of up to 20,000.
Authorized rent supplements to low-income rural families; limited required rent for such families to 25 per cent of
income; generally limited the supplement assistance to 20 per cent of the units in any one project.
Authorized $10-million in each of fiscal 1975–76 for grants and loans for technical assistance for low-income rural
housing development.
Authorized the agriculture secretary to establish escrow accounts holding prepayment of property taxes and other
expenses for FmHA borrowers.
Authorized the agriculture secretary to make or insure loans for the purchase of condominiums in rural areas.
Title VI—Mobile Homes
Required the HUD secretary to establish standards for mobile home safety and construction and to conduct related
research, demonstration and training programs.
7/2/09 3:09 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224967&type=hitlist&num=11
Required mobile home manufacturers to notify owners of defects and pay for correction of such defects if they posed an
unreasonable risk of injury or death or were caused by a manufacturing error.
Title VII—Home Mortgage Assistance
Increased to $55,000 from $45,000 the maximum mortgage loan a federally chartered savings and loan association
could provide for a single-family home.
Eased restrictions barring federal savings and loan associations from making total real estate-related loans equaling
more than 20 per cent of their assets.
Increased to $10,000 from 55,000 the maximum home improvement loan a federal savings and loan association could
make.
Removed restrictions barring federally chartered national banks from making total real estate-related loans exceeding 70
per cent of their total savings deposits.
Increased lending authority for federal credit unions.
Title VIII—Miscellaneous
Authorized the HUD secretary to make grants to or guarantee obligations of state agencies carrying out urban renewal
and housing development activities.
Expanded HUD assistance under the new communities development program.
Authorized the HUD secretary to make annual payments of up to $40-million for an experimental program of cash
housing allowances and authorized open-ended sums for the payments; required the secretary to report to Congress on
the experiment within 18 months of enactment.
Barred sex discrimination in mortgage credit transactions.
Established an independent National Institute of Building Sciences to propose nationally acceptable standards for local
building codes and advise the housing industry on advanced construction techniques; authorized $5-million in each of
fiscal 1975–76 for the institute.
Authorized the HUD secretary to transfer federally owned properties of one to four units to local public agencies for sale
at nominal cost; required those participating in the “urban homesteading” program to live in the home for three years
and make necessary repairs; authorized up to $5-million in each of fiscal 1975–76 for the program.
Authorized HUD to provide counseling and other services for tenants aided under the Section 235 or Section 236
programs.
Earmarked no more than $10-million of HUD research appropriations for study of the special housing needs of the
elderly, handicapped, displaced individuals and large or broken families.
Authorized HUD, in consultation with the National Science Foundation, to undertake solar heating and cooling
demonstrations.
Required the secretary to conduct a one-year study of condominium housing.
Required the HUD secretary and Treasury secretary to study the feasibility of financing rental assistance programs with
direct federal loans instead of loans made by private lending institutions.
Senate Committee Action
The Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee Feb. 27 reported S 3066 (S Rept 93 –693), to
revise and consolidate federal housing programs and to establish a block grant program for community
development.
The 357-page bill was the first congressional attempt in two years to deal comprehensively with the nation's housing
needs, outdated mortgage credit laws and the problems of American cities. Numerous other provisions tacked on to
the omnibus measure dealt with subjects ranging from mobile homes to solar energy.
Major sections of the bill reflected the Nixon administration's desire to consolidate overlapping federal housing
insurance programs, ease the availability of home mortgages and return control of community development
programs to the local level through a block-grant approach. The committee also agreed to expand an experimental
program of direct cash assistance to the poor for housing, the direction the administration proposed to move in the
housing field in 1973.
7/2/09 3:09 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224967&type=hitlist&num=11
At the same time, the committee insisted on continuing, in revised form, housing subsidy programs suspended by
the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) on Jan. 5, 1973. The committee also tempered the
community block grant program proposed by the administration, imposing strict federal control over the use of funds.
Subsidized Housing Programs. In its most widely expected decision, the committee refused to cut off assistance
programs for the poor for home ownership (Section 235) and rental payments (Section 236). Virtually every housing
and urban lobby group had pressed for an end to the moratorium on commitments for the two programs.
HUD contended that the programs should be suspended because they were costly and had failed to meet the
objectives outlined under their authorization in the 1968 Housing Act. But in a speech prepared for delivery March 3
before the National Housing Conference, Committee Chairman John Sparkman (D Ala.) concluded that “much of the
highly publicized criticism leveled at the subsidy programs did not stand up under deep scrutiny.” He said the two
subsidy programs had been revised to meet legitimate complaints.
Leased Public Housing. One of the most controversial sections of S 3066 would embody the essence of changes
proposed by the administration for the leased public housing program (Section 23). Under the existing program,
local housing authorities leased units in private accommodations for the poor and paid their rental subsidy.
If S 3066 were enacted, eligible low-income families could enter directly into lease agreements with owners of
private buildings. Twenty-one housing, labor and civil rights groups attacked the proposed changes March 1,
contending that they would drive up rents, reinforce discrimination against the poor and rely on unresponsive
housing developers and landlords.
At the same time, S 3066 would place primary responsibility for the new program in public housing agencies and
require the agencies to seek out suitable private housing actively. Sparkman admitted that provisions of the new
program might appear confusing.
Almost $1-billion of the bill's $9-billion authorization in fiscal 1975–76 would be earmarked for the new leasing
program. In contrast, the bill included less than $400-million in the same two years for the traditional public housing
program.
Direct Cash Assistance. The committee agreed to the administration proposal to expand the experimental program
of housing cash allowances authorized in 1970. The bill would authorize HUD to spend up to $43-million a year for
direct payments over fiscal 1975–84. (1970 act, 1970 Almanac p. 726)
At the same time, the bill would require HUD to undertake an extensive evaluation of the program to determine its
effects on the quality and cost of available housing and on rehabilitation and construction of new housing units.
Community Development. The committee completely rewrote earlier congressional proposals for block grants to
localities for community development, as well as the administration's proposed Better Communities Act (S 1743).
Instead of basing allocation of funds on factors such as population, poverty and housing needs, S 3066 would base
each allotment on the average yearly funding a community had received under 10 separate programs in 1968–72.
While the initial allotment would be no less than this previous funding, the HUD secretary could adjust the initial
grant at his own discretion in succeeding years.
S 3066 also would reserve at least 80 per cent of allocated funds for programs directly serving the poor and
designed to improve blighted areas; the bill would place other limits on the use of funds for specific purposes. The
administration's proposal would have left use of the funds up to each community.
Urban groups lobbied for some targeting of blockgrant funds and also pushed for one other major change which was
adopted by the committee. S 3066 would guarantee each community funding in two-year cycles; the Better
Communities Act would have provided allotments for a single year at a time.
S 3066 would authorize $2.8-billion in fiscal 1975 for community development, $500-million more than the
administration's budget request. The committee bill would provide an additional $3.3-billion in fiscal 1976 community
development funding.
Committee Bill Provisions: Hud Housing Programs
Flexible Mortgage Limits, Interest Rates. The committee eliminated national statutory limits on the mortgage
amount for residential housing eligible for Federal Housing Administration (FHA) insurance and adopted a formula to
reflect local costs. For unsubsidized housing, the mortgage ceiling would be twice the prototype cost of land and
construction in a local area. The mortgage amount could exceed the local cost of building a subsidized project by 20
per cent. Under existing law, the FHA home mortgage ceiling was $33,000.
The committee also loosened cash down payment requirements under FHA homeownership programs. For a home
costing up to $25,000, the down payment could reach $750, or generally, 3 per cent of the sale price. Under
existing law, the 3 per cent rate applied only to houses costing up to $15,000. S 3066 also would require the buyer
to pay an additional 10 per cent of the sale price between $25,000 and $35,000, 20 per cent of the price between
$35,000 and $45,000 and 30 per cent of the price above $45,000.
7/2/09 3:09 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224967&type=hitlist&num=11
The bill also would make permanent the HUD secretary's authority since 1968 to set maximum interest rates for
FHA-insured mortgages so that they would conform with market levels. The existing FHA interest rate was 8–1/4 per
cent, compared to a market rate of about 9 per cent. Using an experimental approach, S 3066 also would allow FHA
to insure mortgages at any rate negotiated by the buyer and lending institution so long as no additional payments
(“discount points”) were required to compensate for a rate below the market level. The administration supported this
approach on a larger scale.
Compensation for Defects. Ignoring administration objections that the change would be too costly, the committee
expanded requirements that HUD reimburse homeowners for repair of defects in homes approved for FHA
insurance prior to construction. S 3066 also would give the HUD secretary authority to refuse to enter into contracts
with builders or lending institutions who had violated previous contracts.
Energy Conservation. The bill would place emphasis on energy conservation in residential housing in several
ways. HUD would be barred from insuring any mortgage involving new construction unless the housing used
available energy conservation techniques. The bill also would authorize home improvement loans for energy
conservation changes in existing housing and for the installation of solar energy systems.
Experimental Mortgage Programs. S 3066 would authorize two new approaches to mortgage credit on a
demonstration basis. Until July 1, 1976, HUD could require lending institutions to share financial risk with the FHA
by coinsuring mortgages. As suggested by the President in his 1973 housing proposals, the bill also would authorize
flexible mortgage payment levels which could be geared to the changing income pattern of a young couple.
Allocation of Subsidized Housing Funds. To conform with the formula included for urban development block
grants, the bill would require HUD to allocate 75 per cent of funds appropriated for homeownership and rental
assistance and public housing to metropolitan areas. The remaining 25 per cent would be earmarked for non-
metropolitan areas.
Homeownership Assistance (Section 402). The committee made several changes in the existing subsidy program
(Section 235) for homeownership assistance. The bill would set one uniform standard for eligibility for subsidized
programs, restricting participation to those with income not more than 80 per cent of the median income in the area.
The new program also would emphasize rehabilitation of existing units by earmarking 20 per cent, rather than 10 per
cent, of contracts for rehabilitation.
S 3066 would not change the maximum subsidy under existing law. which was the difference between the required
mortgage payment and the payment which would be due at a 1 per cent interest rate. The bill also would continue a
30 per cent limit on contracts for existing housing. The bill would mandate counseling for those assisted under the
program.
Rental Assistance (Section 502). The new rental assistance program would replace both the general rent subsidy
program (Section 236) and the rent supplement program for the aged, disabled and those displaced by federal
projects.
S 3066 would attempt to ensure a mix of families with different income levels in a rental project in two ways. Up to
20 per cent of the units in a project could be occupied by those with incomes above 80 per cent of the median
income in an area. On the other hand, HUD would be required to provide additional payments for 20 per cent of the
units in a project to families too poor to afford the basic rental charge, set at 25 per cent of income. No family would
pay less than the cost of basic utility charges, however.
For other special purposes, the bill would set aside between 15 and 25 per cent of contracts for housing projects for
the elderly and 10 per cent of contracts for rehabilitation of existing housing. Another new feature of the bill would
allow HUD to make additional payments for increased costs of operating a project in order to forestall higher rents.
Public Housing, Leased Housing. S 3066 would make only minor changes in the general public housing program,
first authorized in 1937. These changes would require that at least 20 per cent of all new public housing be
occupied by families with less than 50 per cent of the median income in an area. The bill also would separate
annual contributions to public housing agencies for operating deficits from payments to cover capital costs.
The committee made major changes in the program (Section 23) authorizing public housing authorities to lease units
in private accommodations. As proposed by the administration, the bill would allow low-income families to enter
directly into lease agreements with private owners, with the public housing agencies making subsidy payments to
the owner. At the same time, the bill placed primary authority for carrying out the program in the public agencies.
While the public agencies would be required to seek out suitable private housing and approve it for leasing, the
owner would be free to select his own tenants and be responsible for maintaining the property.
Each family assisted by the leasing program would have to pay 25 per cent of its income toward the fair market
rental. A family conceivably could pay less than this amount, for instance, under the subsidized rental assistance
program.
Rejecting the administration's proposed 20 per cent limit, S 3066 would restrict payments under the leasing program
to 75 per cent of the units in newly constructed or rehabilitated housing. The general limit for existing housing would
be 25 per cent.
Direct Cash Assistance. S 3066 would authorize HUD to make payments of up to $43-million a year over a ten-
7/2/09 3:09 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 9 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224967&type=hitlist&num=11
Direct Cash Assistance. S 3066 would authorize HUD to make payments of up to $43-million a year over a ten-
year period to test the feasibility of making direct cash payments to the poor for housing. The administration
requested $17-million for its demonstration program in fiscal 1975. The HUD secretary would be required to report
on the program to Congress within 18 months of the bill's enactment date.
State Housing Bonds. In a new program, the bill would authorize federal guarantees of bonds issued by state
housing finance agencies for the development of housing for those with low to middle incomes. HUD could
guarantee up to one-third of the interest on taxable bonds; tax-exempt bonds would not be covered.
Community Development and Planning
Community Development. S 3066 would consolidate 10 categorical community development programs into a single
block-grant program, but its resemblance to the administration's Better Communities Act would end there.
The committee bill would authorize $2.8-billion in contract authority for the new program in fiscal 1975 and $3.3-
billion in fiscal 1976. The administration requested $2.3-billion for the program in fiscal 1975.
Other changes from the administration proposal dealt with allocation formulas and federal control over the use of
funds. S 3066 would earmark 75 per cent of appropriated funds for metropolitan areas, compared to a 65 per cent
earmark for metropolitan areas and urban counties under the administration proposal.
The committee bill also would base each locality's allocation for the initial two-year funding period on the average
amount a community had received for categorical programs from 1968–72. HUD could vary this amount in
succeeding funding periods by 20 per cent in either direction. The committee eliminated all mention of population,
poverty and housing needs from the allocation formula, as provided under the administration bill.
Rejecting the “no strings attached” approach of the Better Communities Act, the committee bill would require the
HUD secretary to approve a four-year general plan and a two-year specific plan for meeting the bill's objectives in
each locality. The requirement could be waived only for communities outside metropolitan areas with a population of
less than 25,000.
The bill would restrict use of the funds further by requiring that at least 80 per cent of program expenditures directly
benefit low- and moderate-income families or help deteriorating areas. The bill also would limit expenditures for
public services such as crime prevention or health care to 20 per cent of the total grant. No funds could be used for
the construction of a long list of public facilities including schools, libraries or civic auditoriums.
Comprehensive Planning Grants. Again rejecting the administration approach, the committee recommended
specific requirements for a revised program of federal assistance to state and local governments for planning
activities. The administration proposal (S 2490), called the Responsive Governments Act, would have left use of the
funds more flexible.
S 3066 would require all funding recipients to carry on planning of housing development, land-use programs and
capital expenditures such as highways and transit lines. Funding recipients also would be required to provide a 20
per cent matching grant for federal funds; the administration proposal would have eliminated the entire state or local
share, which was one-third under existing law.
The bill would provide $110-million for the program in fiscal 1975, an amount identical to the administration's budget
request. The authorization would rise to $150-million in fiscal 1976.
Miscellaneous Programs
Rural Housing. S 3066 would make several changes in rural housing programs administered by the Agriculture
Department. One major change would establish a rent supplement program for multifamily housing programs run by
the Farmers Home Administration. Low-income families would pay no more than 25 per cent of their income toward
the rental charge. The bill also would expand eligibility for the rural housing programs to communities outside urban
areas with a population of up to 25,000. Under existing law, the programs were limited to areas of 10,000 population
or less.
Mobile Home Standards. Other new provisions of S 3066 would require HUD to set national standards for the
construction and safety of mobile homes. The bill would require manufacturers to correct major defects and
guarantee that a mobile home met HUD standards under a one-year warranty.
Cooperative Housing Financing. The bill also would establish a new Housing Cooperative Financing Association to
provide credit to groups wishing to develop housing on a cooperative basis.
While the association eventually would rely entirely on private financing, the federal government initially would
subscribe to $5-million of the association's preferred stock; the association also would be authorized to borrow up to
$50-million from the federal treasury. HUD would insure bonds issued by the association.
Sex Discrimination. Correcting an omission in the 1968 Fair Housing Act, the bill would bar discrimination on the
basis of sex in the sale or rental of housing or in the financing of housing. The provision would prevent banks from
refusing to finance a home mortgage for a female buyer solely on the basis of sex. (1968 Almanac p. 152)
7/2/09 3:09 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 10 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224967&type=hitlist&num=11
Homesteading. Reviving a concept used in the 1800s to settle the western frontier, the bill would permit HUD to
transfer federally owned properties to local governments for sale at a very nominal price. Those buying the houses
would have to agree to occupy the property for at least three years and to make necessary repairs.
FHA Insurance Extension. Because the proposed housing programs would not take effect until one year after
enactment, the bill also would extend FHA's authority to insure mortgages to June 30, 1975, from Oct. 1, 1974.
Congress had approved an earlier extension in October 1973. (1973 Almanac p. 424)
Anti-Impoundment Language. Seeking to avoid another moratorium on commitments for subsidized housing, the
bill would require the President to make funds authorized under S 3066 available for obligation during the fiscal year
for which they were appropriated.
Committee Views
The committee emphasized the need to pay more attention to the preservation of existing housing, but rejected the
administration's view that subsidized programs aimed directly at construction were no longer vital. “Evidence
presented to the committee strongly supported the need for a high rate of construction and rehabilitation,” the report
said, in order to meet goals set by the 1968 Housing Act. (1968 Almanac p. 313)
While adopting reforms designed to make the rental and homeownership subsidy programs more responsive to the
needs of the poor, the committee clearly labeled them “production programs”—programs which would increase,
rather than rehabilitate, housing. The report urged the “fullest possible testing” of the administration's direct cash
assistance program to determine its effects on the nation's housing stock. Critics had contended it would lead to less
construction of new housing.
Commenting on specific housing programs, the committee placed special priority on developing public housing
projects which were not occupied solely by the very poor. “Experience has demonstrated that a cross-section of
occupancy is an essential ingredient in creating economically viable housing as well as a healthy social
environment,” the committee argued.
While adopting the “essence” of HUD's recommended changes in the leased public housing program, the committee
reaffirmed its belief that public housing agencies should have primary control of the program. Commenting indirectly
on regulations proposed by HUD Jan. 22 for the program, the report added that “the committee would view with
strong disfavor (federal) regulations abrogating the local decision-making power.”
The committee spelled out in detail its reasons for imposing federal control of community development block grants,
subscribing to the principle “that funds authorized and appropriated by Congress should achieve national, as well as
local, objectives.”
The committee placed specific percentage limits on the use of funds for certain urban development activities, the
report explained, “to make clear the congressional intent that community development funds be used chiefly for
‘hardware’ rather than ‘software’ activities” and for activities to improve deteriorating areas and economic and social
opportunities for the poor.
The 20 per cent limit on use of grants for public services such as health care, the committee said, was imposed to
prevent extensive funding of programs not under HUD's jurisdiction. Banning the use of grants for the construction
of public facilities such as schools, the report explained, would ensure traditional financing of those facilities with
locally raised revenues.
In its strongest statement, the committee said it was “distressed” by evidence that deterioration of multifamily
housing was “due to lack of skilled, professional management.” The statement was an obvious reference to the
indictment of numerous HUD employees and others in the early 1970s for fraudulent handling of federal housing
programs.
Administration officials, the report continued, “offered the committee no guidance or enlightenment” on ways to
professionalize the housing management field. If HUD did not accelerate its efforts to do so, the committee indicated
it would consider new legislation.
Supplemental Views. John G. Tower (R Texas), Bill  Brock (R Tenn.) and Robert W. Packwood (R Ore.) filed
supplemental views, taking issue with many of the committee's decisions.
The general mortgage provisions, they complained, could actually lower the FHA mortgage ceiling in many areas
below the “now outdated dollar limits of existing law.”
Although the committee appeared to adopt the essence of the administration's proposals for the new leased public
housing program, the Republicans contended that “we have taken the proposal and amended it to such a degree
that the concepts…in the original submission have been all but destroyed.” The result was “a hybrid that contains
many of the inequities and pitfalls of our existing programs.”
The three senators were particularly critical of the community development section of S 3066. Instead of basing a
community's allotment on need, they complained, the bill initially would base the grant amount on what a community
had received before. “There is no needs floor, no formula, no adequate common standard. All depends on
grantsmanship and, over time, the (HUD) secretary's discretion,” they said.
7/2/09 3:09 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 11 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224967&type=hitlist&num=11
Communities which had not received any urban development funds in the past, they continued, would be limited to
the amount of discretionary funds they could persuade the secretary to grant them.
Finally, the three committee members branded statutory limits on the use of community development funds arbitrary
and confusing. The ban on use of funds to build public facilities, they contended, “raises an almost endless range of
questions as to congressional logic…. Are police stations and city halls prohibited but jails and courthouses (not
mentioned specifically in the bill) allowed?”
Senate Floor Action
The Senate March 11 passed S 3066 by a 76–11 roll-call vote.
As expected, the Senate made few substantial changes in the complex and lengthy bill reported by the Banking,
Housing and Urban Affairs Committee. The Senate adopted by voice votes all but two of 34 relatively minor
amendments offered to the bill during two days of debate (March 8, 11).
Both John Sparkman (D Ala.), committee chairman, and John G. Tower (R Texas), ranking Republican on the
committee, urged senators not to tamper with the basic structure of the committee version. Instead, they readily
accepted most minor amendments and agreed to carry those they did not endorse into conference after the House
approved a companion housing bill.
Tower, however, was particularly critical of sections of the bill dealing with community development. Explaining his
decision not to oppose the bill at this time, he said: “Since we were unable to resolve the issue successfully in
committee, it does not seem fruitful to try to resolve it on the Senate floor.”
Administration Strategy
Tower's explanation conformed with the administration's decision to ignore, in effect, the Senate bill. The
administration opposed sections of S 3066 reinstating subsidized housing programs suspended by the Department of
Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Jan. 5, 1973, and restricting use of community development block grants.
Rather than fight the Senate bill, HUD Secretary James T. Lynn and his staff were working with the Housing
Subcommittee of the House Banking and Currency Committee in an effort to tailor the House version more to the
administration's liking.
Changes in Senate Bill
While it did not revise the basic structure of programs contained in the committee bill, the Senate increased the bill's
total authorizations to about $10.4-billion from the committee-approved level of $9-billion for fiscal 1975–76.
Slightly over $1-billion was added to increase the authorizations for several housing and urban programs in fiscal
1975 during the transition period to the new programs to be established by the bill. A second amendment adopted
by the Senate increased transitional funding for urban renewal programs in fiscal 1975 to $600-million from the
committee-approved level of $300-million. Other authorizations were identical to the committee-approved amounts.
Debate
Opening general debate on the bill March 8, Sparkman called S 3066 the “most significant legislative proposal on
this subject since the federal government became involved in housing back in the 1930s.” The bill was particularly
important, he argued, because of “total confusion” over the future of federal housing and urban programs.
Sparkman was severely critical of HUD's justification for suspending subsidized housing programs, finding no
evidence “to support the do-nothing policy of the past year.”
While heeding pleas not to try to rewrite the committee bill on the floor, several senators including Tower registered
objections to some of its provisions.
Although recognizing that “the enormity of S 3066 makes it very difficult to see precisely what some of these
provisions might mean,” Tower repeated his opposition to the committee's decision to base community development
funding on previously authorized grant levels rather than on a formula based on need.
Roman L. Hruska (R Neb.) agreed, arguing that areas which had grown rapidly in recent years “will have to scramble
in the national melee for the approximately one-third of the total funds left over after the Great Society winners take
their cut.”
Explaining what S 3066 would not do, William Proxmire (D Wis.), ranking Democrat on the committee, noted that the
bill did not contain “clear and unequivocal language” to end the administration's moratorium on commitments for
subsidized housing. He also pointed out that the committee could not agree on provisions which would have forced
HUD to control excessive real estate settlement costs.
But after listening to general debate and discussion of amendments, Robert Taft Jr. (R Ohio) urged his colleagues to
7/2/09 3:09 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 12 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224967&type=hitlist&num=11
remember the fundamental need to get some legislation enacted.
“…If we want a major bill, everyone is going to have to compromise—the Senate, the House and the
administration,” Taft said. “As the legislative process continues, let us keep in mind that the ‘perfect bill’ is not going
to help anyone if it ends up in the ‘also-rans’ file.”
Subsidized Housing Eligibility.
The most important amendments adopted March 8 would expand eligibility for the new homeownership and rental
assistance programs contained in the bill.
Walter F. Mondale (D Minn.) first proposed an amendment to raise the cut-off point for eligibility for the
homeownership program to those with income up to 90 per cent of the median income in a certain area. The
committee limited eligibility to those with up to 80 per cent of median income.
Because of regional differences in median income and housing costs, Mondale maintained that in many cities the
homeownership program simply could not operate. Because of high housing costs in these cities, he said, a family
would have to have income larger than the 80 per cent ceiling to meet its required share of mortgage payments.
Raising the ceiling to 90 per cent would ease this problem, he concluded.
Jacob K. Javits (R N.Y.) proposed the same change in the income ceiling for the rental assistance program. There
was little opposition to either amendment.
Leasing Program
Perhaps the most controversial amendment, adopted March 11, dealt with the new program authorizing public
housing agencies to lease housing for lower-income families in private dwellings. Taft proposed to allow the public
agencies themselves to develop and build new housing under the leasing program.
Sparkman argued that the amendment could undermine the whole purpose of the program, which was designed to
encourage private renovation and construction of housing. Tower also pointed out that the amendment could pose
conflict-of-interest problems because the agencies building new housing units would be responsible for inspecting
and approving them for leasing as well.
“Not promising anything beyond that point,” Sparkman said he would take the amendment to conference.
Housing for Special Groups
Several senators proposed amendments March 8 dealing with special housing needs of particular groups. The
amendments, all of which were adopted by voice votes, included:
By Joseph M. Montoya (D N.M.), to earmark $15-million of federal contributions to public housing agencies in each of
fiscal 1975–76 for housing for Indians and Eskimos.
By Alan Cranston (D Calif.), to earmark no more than $10-million of funds appropriated for HUD research programs for
demonstrations to determine the special housing needs of the elderly, handicapped, single individuals, broken families
and other groups.
By William D. Hathaway (D Maine), to authorize the Farmers Home Administration, on a demonstration basis, to defer
repayment of up to 50 per cent of a subsidized mortgage for low-income housing in a rural area.
Fraud
In an attempt to control fraudulent handling of HUD housing funds, Henry Bellmon (R Okla.) offered an amendment
which he said would require HUD to pursue recovery of mishandled funds from owners or contractors in cases of
suspected fraud.
Sparkman agreed with the purpose of the amendment, but said he needed time to study its actual effect. After
Sparkman decided to accept the amendment for further evaluation, it was adopted by voice vote.
Other Amendments
Most of the other amendments adopted by voice votes were designed to perfect or clarify minor sections of the bill.
Those of a more substantive nature included:
By Javits, to authorize the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) to insure refinanced home mortgages for cooperative,
non-profit and limited profit groups, even if these owners had not owned their property for three years. Adopted March 8.
By Edward W. Brooke (R Mass.), to continue the FHA Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund separate from the FHA General
Insurance Fund. Adopted March 8. Brooke argued that consolidation of the two funds, as provided in the committee bill,
would jeopardize the sound financial position of the mutual mortgage insurance fund.
7/2/09 3:09 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 13 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224967&type=hitlist&num=11
By Taft, to require the HUD secretary and Treasury secretary to review the appropriateness of tax incentives for
investment in low-income housing projects. Adopted March 11.
By Harrison A. Williams Jr. (D N.J.), to authorize FHA to insure mortgages for housing constructed under the leasing
program even if more than 20 per cent of the units in a project were receiving rental assistance payments. Adopted
March 11. The committee adopted the 20 per cent limit in order to encourage financing of such projects through private
means and to ensure a mix of family income levels in projects not backed by FHA.
Rejected Amendments
Tower refused to accept an amendment offered by Javits March 8 which would have expanded eligibility for the
leasing program by revising the definition of income. Tower argued that whenever Congress tried to aid the poor,
“for one reason or another the eligibility seems to gravitate up the income scale….” The amendment was rejected
by voice vote.
The only other amendment rejected during the debate, defeated March 11 by voice vote, would have eliminated the
bill's earmarking of grants under the comprehensive planning program for metropolitan areawide organizations.
Final Passage
In its only recorded vote on S 3066, the Senate passed the bill by a 76–11 vote. (Vote 59, p. 11-S)
Voting against the bill were: Harry F. Byrd Jr. (Ind Va.), Robert C. Byrd (D W.Va.), Carl T. Curtis (R Neb.), Sam J. Ervin
Jr. (D N.C.), Paul J. Fannin (R Ariz.), Barry Goldwater (R Ariz.), Jesse A. Helms (R N.C.), John L. McClellan (D Ark.),
William Lloyd Scott (R Va.), John C. Stennis (D Miss.) and Strom Thurmond (R S.C.).
Expressing the concern of other opponents, Byrd (Va.) explained that he supported many parts of the bill but
objected to its total price tag.
House Committee Action
The House Banking and Currency Committee June 17 reported its housing bill (HR 15361—H Rept 93 –1114).
The full committee's action sealed agreements made at the subcommittee level in an effort to ensure that President
Nixon would sign some new housing legislation in 1974. With chief sponsors of the bill urging respect for these
agreements with the administration, the full committee accepted only a few substantive changes in the version (HR
14490) approved April 30 by its Housing Subcommittee. James T. Lynn, secretary of housing and urban
development, said he would recommend a presidential veto of housing legislation along the lines of the Senate-
passed bill, but praised HR 15361.
In contrast to S 3066, the House committee bill would replace the subsidized programs the administration wanted to
discard with an expanded rental leasing program (Section 23). Subsidized programs for homeownership for the near
poor would be eliminated.
Adopting the philosophy that decisions about housing and community development needs should be returned to
local governments, the bill would place almost no restrictions on the use of community development block grants
and would require housing assistance to conform with local housing plans. The Senate insisted that the legislation
should place top priority on specific national goals.
The House committee bill would authorize a total of $9.8-billion in fiscal 1975–77 to carry out the new community
development and housing efforts. The Senate-passed bill had about the same price tag, but fiscal years covered by
various specific authorizations did not correspond in the two bills.
While the House committee bill had the administration's general approval and the qualified support of mayors'
groups, it displeased many key groups in the housing field, including the National Association of Home Builders and
the National Association of Housing and Redevelopment Officials. Several groups, including the U.S. League of
Women Voters, Americans for Democratic Action, National Tenants Organization and labor and civil rights groups,
formed an informal coalition to try to expand the low-income housing provisions of the bill.
Sponsors of the bill were well aware that the compromises they had made with the administration would alienate
supporters of strong public and subsidized housing programs and dissatisfy House members from big cities which
would lose some federal urban development funds under the bill's community development allocation formula.
But they insisted they had chosen the pragmatic approach, devising a bill the President could sign while
guaranteeing development of some new subsidized housing and instituting a major new community development
program. The committee also had to avoid controversial provisions which might jeopardize House passage of any
bill, William S. Moorhead (D Pa.), a senior committee member, pointed out June 17. Writing a bill with no chance of
House passage or presidential approval, he said, would have been a “wasted exercise.”
Committee Bill Provisions: Community Development
7/2/09 3:09 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 14 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224967&type=hitlist&num=11
Despite the opposition of some big-city Democrats, the full committee defeated all efforts to change major
community development provisions of the subcommittee bill. Over 30 House members wrote to the committee
protesting that the provisions would penalize cities which had worked hardest on urban development programs.
Allocation Formula
The controversy centered on provisions of the bill allocating block grants on the basis of a three-part formula. The
formula would base grants on population, poverty (counted twice) and the extent of housing overcrowding. The
House members opposing the formula said it eventually would cut community development funds in half for between
80 and 100 big cities.
During fiscal 1975–77, the bill would ensure each city the greater of the formula amount or the average annual
amount (called the “hold harmless” amount) it received under categorical urban programs in 1968–72. During fiscal
1978–80, cities which had received more than the formula amount during the hold harmless years would have their
grants phased down by thirds to the formula level. By fiscal 1980, all grants would be based on the formula. The
Senate bill would base initial allocations on the hold harmless amount and give the HUD secretary authority to
adjust the grants by 20 per cent in either direction after two years.
HR 15361 would allocate 80 per cent of community development grants to metropolitan areas and urban counties
and 20 per cent to non-metropolitan areas. Two per cent of appropriated funds would be earmarked for a
discretionary fund which the HUD secretary could use for emergency grants, innovative projects and aid to new
communities. The Senate bill would reserve 75 per cent of funds for metropolitan areas and 25 per cent for rural
areas.
Eligible Activities
Localities could use their grants for a broad range of activities under HR 15361. Eligible activities included slum
removal, public works, health and social services programs, water and sewer development, planning and elimination
of blight. The bill would place no restrictions on the proportion of funds which could be used for any type of activity.
In contrast, the Senate bill would require localities to use 80 per cent of the grants to eliminate blight and to aid the
poor and near poor. Use of funds for construction of various civic facilities would be prohibited and use of funds to
provide public services would be limited to no more than 20 per cent of the total grant.
Application Requirements
Under HR 15361 no grants would be approved unless an applicant submitted a general plan outlining specific
community development goals and a separate plan covering proposed housing assistance. Metropolitan areas and
urban counties would be required to submit a three-year schedule of anticipated activities.
The Senate bill would require all localities to submit a four-year general plan and a two-year specific plan. The
requirement could be waived only for rural localities.
Programs Replaced
The block grant program under HR 15361 would replace the same categorical programs covered by the Senate bill
with one major exception. The House bill would fold the federal program (Section 312) providing direct low-interest
loans to homeowners for rehabilitation of urban property into the community development program. The Senate bill
would leave the program separate.
Authorization
The House bill would authorize a total of $8.05-billion for the program in fiscal 1975–77—$2.45-billion in 1975,
$2.65-billion in 1976 and $2.95-billion in 1977. It would authorize an additional $100-million in fiscal 1975–77 for
urgent or transitional community development needs.
The Senate-passed bill would authorize $2.8-billion for the program in fiscal 1975 and $3.3-billion in fiscal 1976. It
also would provide $600-million in fiscal 1975 for transitional funding of urban renewal programs. The administration
requested $2.3-billion for the block grant program in its fiscal 1975 budget.
Assisted Housing Programs
The housing section of the House bill would rely almost entirely on the expanded rental leasing program (Section
23). Although the $1.23-billion in new contract authority for fiscal 1974–75 provided under the bill was not
earmarked specifically in the legislation, over $1-billion of the authority was reserved informally for the Section 23
program, with only modest increases provided for traditional public housing program support. (Box, preceding page)
Details of Section 23 Program
Under existing law, the Section 23 program emphasized leasing of existing private housing for low-income tenants.
Local public housing authorities would pay assistance payments for these tenants and select the tenants. In early
1974 HUD revised the program by regulation to increase the management role of the property owner and stimulate
7/2/09 3:09 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 15 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224967&type=hitlist&num=11
1974 HUD revised the program by regulation to increase the management role of the property owner and stimulate
new construction of private housing under Section 23.
The House committee generally expanded these regulations. Private developers and public housing authorities could
qualify for assistance if they agreed to build or rehabilitate housing with some or all units reserved for low-income
families. The same assistance would apply to existing housing as well.
The key difference between Section 23 and existing subsidized programs for homeownership (Section 235) and
rental assistance (Section 236) was the type of assistance owners received from HUD. Under Section 235 and
Section 236 programs, builders received a mortgage interest subsidy; under Section 23 as proposed by the House
committee, they would receive only the rental assistance payments. The federal government would make up the
difference between 20 and 25 per cent of a tenant's gross income and the actual rent, which could be no more than
10 per cent above the fair market rental determined by HUD.
Developers could receive payments for up to 100 per cent of the units in a project. But the HUD secretary would be
required to give priority to project applications limiting the assisted units to 20 per cent for projects with more than
50 units which were not designed for the elderly.
Eligible Participants
Families with income up to 80 per cent of the median income for a certain area of the country could qualify for
assistance. But the bill would reserve 30 per cent of all assistance funds for very low-income families—those with
income up to 50 per cent of the area's median income.
Allocation of Section 23 Funds
The bill would tie housing assistance closely to local housing plans and require the HUD secretary to consider
factors such as poverty, the amount of substandard housing and other objective conditions in approving project
applications. Generally, the secretary could not approve a project unless it were consistent with an approved local
housing plan.
Specifically, the bill would earmark at least 20 per cent of all Section 23 housing assistance for projects in rural
areas. Another 20 per cent of new Section 23 and public housing assistance would be reserved for projects serving
the elderly and handicapped. At least $20-million would be set aside to provide low-rent housing for Indians and
Alaskan natives.
Public Housing Minimum Rents
The bill would set standard minimum rents for low-income tenants in public housing. Each tenant would pay the
greater of 10 per cent of gross income or the amount of welfare assistance earmarked for rent for his unit. Under
existing law the maximum rent for public housing tenants was 25 per cent of income adjusted for various
deductions.
If the bill required increases in public housing rents, the increases would be limited to $5 every six months.
Section 235 and Section 236 Programs
The bill would extend the existing subsidy programs through fiscal 1975, but generally allow no funding of new
commitments. HUD could use the extension to honor bona fide commitments it had made at the time when the
administration suspended the programs in January 1973. (1973 Almanac p. 428)
Mortgage Credit
Like the Senate bill, HR 15361 would extend Federal Housing Administration (FHA) mortgage insurance programs
through fiscal 1977 and increase the maximum mortgage amounts FHA could guarantee. The maximum FHA
mortgage ceiling would rise to $45,000 from $33,000 for a single-family home. The Senate bill would not set a
specific ceiling, tying maximum amounts to a formula based on local construction costs.
The House committee generally followed the Senate bill provisions in loosening cash down payment requirements
under FHA homeownership programs. The required down payment would be 3 per cent on homes costing up to
$25,000, an additional 10 per cent on the cost between $25,000 and $35,000 and another 20 per cent on the cost
above $35,000. Under existing law the 3 per cent rate applied only to houses costing up to $15,000.
The House bill also would extend until June 30, 1977, the HUD secretary's authority under a 1968 law to set flexible
interest rates for FHA-insured mortgages in order to reflect market levels. The Senate bill would make the authority
permanent.
HR 15361 also would allow FHA to insure on an experimental basis mortgages for which the lending institution was
willing to share the financial risk by co-insuring mortgages. The program would terminate on June 30, 1977; the
comparable program set up under the Senate bill would expire a year earlier.
Miscellaneous Programs
7/2/09 3:09 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 16 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224967&type=hitlist&num=11
Rural Housing
The full committee did agree to expand provisions of the subcommittee bill dealing with housing programs
administered by the Agriculture Department. The major change adopted would establish a rent supplement for
multifamily housing programs run by the Farmers Home Administration. Low-income families would pay no more
than 25 per cent of their income for rent, but no more than 20 per cent of the families in any one project could
receive the assistance. The Senate bill contained comparable provisions.
The full committee also tightened provisions of the subcommittee bill expanding eligibility for rural housing programs.
The subcommittee would have extended eligibility to rural communities of up to 25,000 population as provided in the
Senate bill; the full committee reduced eligibility to communities with up to 15,000 population. Existing law limited
assistance to localities with no more than 10,000 population.
The House bill, however, did not include a number of other rural housing provisions approved by the Senate and
supported by rural housing groups.
State Development Agencies
HR 15361 also would encourage states to set up state agencies to finance development of housing for low- and
moderate-income families, promote sound development of neighborhoods and implement state land use planning
policies. HUD would guarantee bonds the agency used to finance such activities or provide a 30 per cent interest
subsidy on bonds and other obligations.
Housing Research
The bill would earmark $10-million of HUD research appropriations for demonstration projects dealing with the
special housing needs of the elderly, handicapped, single individuals, broken families and large households. The
Senate bill contained a similar provision.
Sex Discrimination Ban
Like the Senate bill, HR 15361 would outlaw sex discrimination by lending institutions for almost all mortgage
transactions. Banks would have to consider “without prejudice” the combined income of a husband and wife seeking
a mortgage loan. In the past some banks counted only a portion of a working wife's income in computing the size of
the mortgage it would offer.
Emergency Consumer Mortgage Credit
The last section of the bill would make a number of changes in laws governing lending institutions. The changes
were designed to increase the money supply for mortgages not backed by the federal government.
Two of the most important changes would increase to $55,000 from $45,000 the maximum mortgage loan a
federally chartered savings and loan association could make and eliminate a restriction preventing federally
chartered national banks from making total real estate-related loans exceeding 70 per cent of their savings deposits.
Committee Views
“The committee bill is a bipartisan effort to break the deadlock over HUD's housing and community development
programs so that the nation can resume its activities in these areas with broad political support,” the committee said.
Because of the 18-month HUD moratorium on subsidized housing programs and the failure of Congress to pass
major housing legislation in the last three years, the committee said, efforts to provide housing for the poor “virtually
ceased.”
In its general statement, the committee also noted that delays in urban development funding had forced some
communities to abandon planned activities.
Community Development
The committee majority called enactment of a community development block grant program long overdue. Under
categorical programs, it pointed out, grants awarded were not related to needs and local elected officials found their
authority undercut by special agencies they did not control.
The block grant program, the committee said, would help eliminate these problems and “strengthen the ability of
local elected officials to determine their community's development needs, set priorities and allocate resources to
various activities.” Local officials “should clearly be in charge” of distributing funds, the report stressed.
While emphasizing the role of local officials, the committee pointed out that the application review requirements of
the bill would maintain HUD's ability to make sure that proposed local activities met national objectives as well.
The committee disagreed at length with big-city Democrats who charged that the allocation formula would hurt large
urban areas used to substantial grants under the categorical programs. When the formula was fully effective in
fiscal 1980, authorizations should have increased to levels reducing “the likelihood of precipitous funding cutbacks,”
7/2/09 3:09 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 17 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224967&type=hitlist&num=11
fiscal 1980, authorizations should have increased to levels reducing “the likelihood of precipitous funding cutbacks,”
the report said.
The committee did warn that some relatively severe cutbacks might occur during the first three years of the program
however, because of provisions requiring computation of the hold-harmless amount on an average basis. Without
appropriation funding at the levels authorized by the committee, the report added, the delicate balance written into
allocation provisions would fall apart. “It is essential that both the Congress and the administration honor their
commitments to those communities,” the committee asserted.
Housing
Despite its acceptance of the administration's desire to rely on the Section 23 subsidized housing program, the
committee blasted the administration's suspension of the Section 235 and Section 236 subsidy programs. It harshly
condemned the moratorium as “unlawful and a perversion of the constitutional role of the executive and legislative
branches of the government.”
Nor did the President's announcement in September 1973 that the administration was considering direct cash
housing allowances as a replacement for subsidized housing programs provide any firm commitment, the committee
charged. That announcement was “ambiguous and inconclusive” as to what the administration's future housing
plans were, the committee said.
Despite assurances that the administration supported the housing provisions of the bill, the committee said it was
deeply concerned that they “may be viewed as interim or temporary measures to be suspended by executive fiat
whenever [the administration's] new housing policy has finally been formulated, perhaps within one or two years.”
Given this fear, “the committee wishes to make it clear that it is not recommending such a temporary housing
program and that future modifications in or terminations of housing subsidy programs are to be effected through the
legislative process only,” the report stressed.
Although the subcommittee sponsors had agreed informally with HUD officials that use of the Section 235 and
Section 236 authority in fiscal 1975 generally should be limited to bona fide outstanding commitments, the committee
explained that the programs should remain on a standby basis. “Should the new program prove in practice to be
inadequate in meeting housing needs,” the report said, “it is the committee's intent that existing programs be utilized
to the fullest possible extent.” In all, the bill should provide an additional 400,000 units of subsidized housing, the
committee said.
The report characterized the bill's requirement that the HUD secretary give general priority to Section 23 developers
limiting assisted units to 20 per cent per project as a demonstration to find out whether builders had any substantial
interest in this approach. The committee said it expected HUD to make sure that the 20 per cent limit did not freeze
out tenants at the lower end of the eligibility scale in such projects.
The committee also defended its decision to require public housing tenants to pay minimum rents based on gross
income amounts. Various deductions from gross income allowed in previous subsidized programs had “created more
inequities than they cured,” the committee maintained.
The bill also would cure inequities and ease the severe financial problems faced by many public housing agencies,
the report said, by requiring each public housing tenant to contribute a fair share toward his rent. The minimum rent
provisions would relate rental payments to income, but ensure that no tenants paid the minimal or zero rents
allowed under existing law, the committee pointed out.
Other Views
Committee members, most of them unhappy with certainprovisions of the bill for various reasons, filed eight sets of
supplemental and dissenting views.
Democratic Objections
Five committee Democrats focused their criticisms on the housing provisions of the bill.
Dissenting from the report, Henry B. Gonzalez (Texas) charged that the Section 23 program would turn over
lowincome housing programs to private developers, undercutting the role of public housing authorities. He also
questioned combining all housing efforts in a single program “that could well turn out to be inadequate.” Gonzalez
objected to the community development allocation formula because it would ignore cities with active urban
development programs. The bill also failed to ensure that communities would spend their money to improve blighted
areas, he complained.
In a stronger dissent, Parren J. Mitchell (D Md.) and Del. Walter E. Fauntroy (D D.C.) said the bill “makes a mockery of
our national housing goals of a decent home for every American family.” They charged the bill was “heavily
weighted against the poor” because it would reserve very few Section 23 units for the very poor and would extend
eligibility for assistance too high up the income scale.
The two Democrats said it was clear that the committee's treatment of the poor was not based on low-income
housing needs or a factual determination that the poor should pay more for housing. “If it is just a matter of getting
7/2/09 3:09 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 18 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224967&type=hitlist&num=11
housing needs or a factual determination that the poor should pay more for housing. “If it is just a matter of getting
any bill through that the President will not veto,” they concluded, “then the committee has done much less than the
American people expect from their legislative branch.”
In separate supplemental views, Edward I. Koch (D N.Y.) and John Joseph Moakley (D Mass.) objected to the
committee's decisions to limit new public housing assistance and to impose public housing minimum rents. Koch
called for reinstatement of the suspended subsidy programs and insisted that “all of the national housing effort
should not rely on this one untested [Section 23] program.” Koch said he hoped that conferees would adopt the
housing provisions of the Senate bill.
Moakley found it “inconceivable” that Congress would ask the poorest families in the country to pay minimum rents
in order to secure revenues needed by public housing agencies.
Koch also questioned why participants in the Section 23 program should pay 20 to 25 per cent of gross income
toward rent, while public housing tenants paid only 10 per cent. He said he would propose lowering the Section 23
rent requirements to 15 to 20 per cent of gross income.
Fortney H. (Pete) Stark (D Calif.) filed less critical supplemental views, calling the bill “the best that the committee
could have reported given the position of the administration.” He contended, however, that the over-all funding
levels were not adequate.
Republican Views
Eleven of the committee's 16 Republicans filed an additional statement objecting to the report's characterization of
the housing moratorium as unlawful. Including that statement was “uncalled for, inappropriate and not in keeping
with actual considerations of the committee,” they said, because the committee never discussed the question and
the issue was before the courts.
The Republicans also said they planned to support a floor amendment which would allow communities under 50,000
to use a streamlined application process if they sought community development funds for only a single activity.
Three Republican conservatives—John H. Rousselot (Calif.), Philip M. Crane (Ill.) and John B. Conlan (Ariz.)—also
dissented from the report. They opposed the “excessive cost” of the bill, the detailed application requirements for
local community development funds and extension of the Section 235 and Section 236 programs on any basis. “…
This bill would authorize nearly $10-billion to be thrown at all-too-familiar problems in a manner which will not be
dramatically different from that of preimpoundment days,” they contended.
House Floor Action
The House June 20 passed HR 15361 by a 351–25 recorded vote. Most of the opponents were conservatives
traditionally against the principle of federal spending for housing and urban programs. (Vote 216, p. 68-H)
The sponsors were generally successful in guiding the committee bill through the House without change, but the
House could not resist adopting one major amendment which reinstated a special program providing housing for the
elderly. The amendment would authorize Treasury borrowing of up to $1.5-billion for the program, increasing the
bill's price tag to about $11.3 billion.
Objections
As he had been in committee, Parren J. Mitchell (D Md.) was one of the most vocal critics of the bill and the way it
was developed. The committee version, he said, would impose injustices on the poor, ignore public housing needs
and force urban aid cutbacks on 80 big cities.
Mitchell scathingly attacked the sponsors' contention that HR 15361 was a bipartisan bill developed in the best
legislative tradition. The attitude that the committee must avoid anything that could trigger a presidential veto had
guided all deliberations, he charged.
This kind of legislating “makes a mockery of the checks and balances foundation of this government,” Mitchell
declared. “And more serious than anything else, it is legislating not to the needs of this country, but to the wishes of
the executive branch.”
The bill was no compromise, agreed Henry B. Gonzalez (D Texas). “It is a capitulation, it is a retreat, it is a
surrender. It is a surrender of the commitment that America has made since 1949 [under the 1949 Housing Act] to
provide the opportunity to the average American family to obtain a safe, decent and sanitary home.” (Congress and
the Nation Vol. I, p. 478)
Defenses
The bill might not do all that everyone wanted, responded its backers, but it was a good, practical bill which could
be enacted. “While there is some truth to the claim that this decision by the committee is partly in reaction to a
threatened veto,” William S. Moorhead (D Pa.) pointed out, the bill would provide almost as much new housing as was
built in any one year under the old subsidized programs.
7/2/09 3:09 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 19 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224967&type=hitlist&num=11
It was “entirely wrong” to call the bill a retreat or a capitulation to a veto threat, insisted Garry Brown (R Mich.), a
chief Republican sponsor of the measure. The bill was “the high point of the legislative session” in terms of
bipartisan cooperation, he said, and an attempt to make sure that the full House would not emasculate or kill
housing legislation as it had done in the past. The bill also was a tribute, Brown and Thomas L. Ashley (D Ohio)
agreed, to the willingness of HUD officials to try to work out differences with Congress.
The bill's strongest point, added Bill  Frenzel (R Minn.), was that it was a compromise between congressional and
administration views. The fact that the measure provoked equal criticism from supporters of generous housing
programs and fiscal conservatives “is usually a pretty good indication that a decent compromise has been struck,” he
suggested.
Rural, Urban Complaints
Members from rural or sparsely populated districts, including Teno Roncalio (D Wyo.) and Vernon W. Thomson (R
Wis.), complained that the bill slighted rural housing needs, while numerous House members of both parties
representing urban areas ticked off the funding cutbacks the community development allocation formula would
impose on their cities.
But Ashley pointed out that the bill would reserve 20 per cent of community development and housing funds for rural
areas, more than they had received under categorical programs. And the HUD funds would be in addition to
assistance available from Agriculture Department programs, he noted.
Moorhead also pointed out that the community development program would guarantee big cities funds. “My local
officials [from Pittsburgh] have told me that they would rather know that they were assured of $9 rather than have a
hope of $10,” he said, “because the assurance allows them to plan ahead.”
Housing for the Elderly
The House easily adopted—274–112—the amendment to reinstate the special housing program (Section 202) for
the elderly. The amendment, offered by Robert H. Steele (R Conn.), had the support of the Republican Policy
Committee and senior citizens' groups. More Democrats than Republicans opposed the amendment. (Vote 214, p.
68-H)
The amendment would authorize HUD to borrow $1.5-billion from the Treasury to make direct loans to non-profit
sponsors of housing for the elderly. The Section 202 program was phased out in 1969 because of its potential
impact on the budget and duplication of assistance available under other subsidy programs.
Steele argued that the program should be revived because long waiting lists for public or subsidized units forced the
elderly to live in the nation's worst housing. He contended that the $1.5-billion authorization would not hurt the
budget because the money would be spent over five or six years and repayments on other loans would be coming
into the Treasury.
“We all love the elderly,” responded Ashley. “In an election year, we love them loudly.” But if the House gave special
preference to the elderly, he said, it would only face pressure to do the same for other special groups.
Ashley also disputed that the Treasury borrowing authority would not affect the budget, just because it was a form
of “back-door” spending. He and William A. Barrett (D Pa.) said that HUD and the Treasury opposed the amendment.
“…I do not want to send a bill down there which will be vetoed,” Barrett, chairman of the Banking Committee's
Housing Subcommittee, insisted.
Announcing that he was a bit confused, Thomas M. Rees (D Calif.) noted that committee Democrats were told not to
expand the bill because of the veto threat, but now the Republicans were proposing all the amendments adding to
the bill's cost. “Are they going to guarantee that if all of their amendments going into this bill [are adopted], that they
will guarantee us a veto-proof bill?” he asked.
Despite the same objections by the sponsors, the House also voted 285–114 to adopt an amendment by William A.
Ketchum (R Calif.) which would discount any future increases in Social Security benefits in computing eligibility for
public housing and figuring minimum public housing rents. The amendment was inequitable, Brown charged,
because it discriminated against those receiving benefits other than Social Security. (Vote 213, p. 68-H)
Subsidized Housing Amendments
The House defeated, by a 32–74 standing vote, an attempt to put the existing Section 235 and Section 236 housing
subsidy programs on an equal footing with the new leasing program. The amendment, offered by Del. Walter E. Faun
troy (D D.C.) would have extended the programs through fiscal 1977 and authorized about $1-billion in additional
funding for them.
Fauntroy argued that the existing programs had been very successful and that they were the best way to bring the
housing industry out of its slump. He specifically objected to the bill's elimination of any homeownership assistance
to lower-income families.
Brown and Ashley contended that the new Section 23 program would correct problems under the old programs.
Ashley pointed out that the existing programs could be used should the Section 23 program fail, although he did not
7/2/09 3:09 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 20 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224967&type=hitlist&num=11
Ashley pointed out that the existing programs could be used should the Section 23 program fail, although he did not
expect that it would. Both sponsors of the bill also opposed the cost of Fauntroy's amendment.
While “it has nothing to do with the moral character of the people involved,” Ashley also argued that the Section 235
homeownership program had not worked very well because the costs of owning and operating a home had gone up
faster than family incomes.
After it was modified by Ashley, the House did adopt by voice vote an amendment by Edward I. Koch (D N.Y.) easing
minimum rent requirements for tenants in Section 23 housing. Koch proposed to change a requirement that the
tenants pay between 20 and 25 per cent of their gross income for rent to between 15 and 20 per cent. He said that
would bring the required payments more in line with the minimum rent of 10 per cent of gross income the bill would
require public housing tenants to pay.
Ashley proposed changing the requirement for Section 23 tenants to between 15 and 25 per cent of gross income
and Koch agreed. The 15 per cent level would be reserved for the poor or large families, Ashley explained.
Other Amendments
With little or no debate, the House took the following actions on some of the other amendments considered during
debate:
Adopted by voice vote an amendment by Robert L. F. Sikes (D Fla.) to extend eligibility for Federal Housing
Administration (FHA) mortgage insurance to housing in areas dominated by military installations.
Adopted by voice vote an amendment by Marjorie S. Holt (R Md.) to require HUD to establish a national homesteading
program for single-family homes owned by the federal government.
Rejected by voice vote an amendment by Herman Badillo (D N.Y.) to require HUD to establish a similar homesteading
program for multifamily housing.
Adopted by voice vote an amendment by Benjamin S. Rosenthal (D N.Y.) to require the HUD secretary to conduct a
one-year study of condominium housing.
Adopted by voice vote an amendment by Louis Stokes (D Ohio) to require the use of high-quality and durable materials
in the construction of public and HUD-assisted housing regardless of cost.
Adopted by voice vote an amendment by James R. Jones (D Okla.) to require lending institutions to notify a potential
property buyer that the property was located in an area with flood hazards before approval of a real estate loan.
Rejected by voice vote an amendment by Robert G. Stephens Jr. (D Ga.) to eliminate any down payment requirements
on homes costing up to $15,000 backed by FHA mortgage guarantees if the buyer had enough cash to cover real estate
closing costs.
Rejected by a 111–260 vote an amendment by John H. Rousselot (R Calif.) to delete provisions of the bill allowing
recipients of basic grants from the National Foundation on Arts and Humanities to seek a supplementary grant from
HUD for projects in HUD's new communities areas. (Vote 215, p. 68-H)
Rejected by voice vote an amendment by Badillo to bar suburban areas within 50 miles of a central city from using
zoning laws to prevent construction of low- or moderate-income housing and to require HUD to give priority under
various programs to suburban areas planning to provide low- or moderate-income housing. Ashley argued that the
amendment was too far-reaching to be considered hastily on the floor.
Conference Action
House-Senate conferees Aug. 6 reached agreement on an omnibus housing bill (S 3066) that erased most major
administration objections to the version originally approved by the Senate. The report (H Rept 93–1279) was filed
Aug. 12.
The funding formula for distribution of community development block grants followed the formula set up by the
House by factoring in population, housing overcrowding and poverty, but conferees agreed that communities that
had received assistance in the past would receive at least that much for the first three years of the new block grant
program. After three years, communities entitled to less money would be phased down to the formula level.
On the controversial housing subsidies issue, conferees agreed to extend the Section 235 homeownership program
and the Section 236 rental assistance program for two years but authorized only $75-million in new funds. Most of
the housing funds under the conference bill were allocated to the new Section 23 leased housing subsidy program
that the administration favored.
The bill also increased the mortgage limit on FHA-insured loans from $33,000 to $45,000 and reduced down-
payment requirements. S 3066 authorized a total of $11.1-billion for housing and related programs.
Details of major conference actions:
7/2/09 3:09 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 21 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224967&type=hitlist&num=11
Community Development
Conferees adopted the key House community development provisions almost intact. The new block grant program
would take effect Jan. 1, 1975.
Allocation Formula
One of the major House-passed provisions accepted by the conferees would establish a three-part formula for
allocation of the block grants. Allocations would be based on population, poverty (counted twice) and the extent of
housing overcrowding. The Senate version based initial allocations on the average annual (“hold harmless”) amount
a community had received under categorical urban programs in fiscal 1968–72; the initial grants could have been
adjusted by 20 per cent in either direction after the first two-year funding period under the Senate bill.
Also like the House-passed bill, the conference version would guarantee that in fiscal 1975–77 each metropolitan
area and urban county would receive the greater of the formula amount (phased in by thirds over the three-year
period) or the hold harmless amount. If the hold harmless amount were greater than the formula entitlement, it then
would be phased down by thirds to the formula amount in fiscal 1978–80.
In response to criticism that the formula approach eventually would penalize cities which had participated actively in
the categorical programs, conferees agreed that the formula should be reviewed by Congress and HUD before
funds for fiscal 1978–80 were authorized.
House conferees also agreed to expand provisions of the House bill governing how much categorical funding would
be counted in computing the hold harmless amount. The House version would have allowed inclusion of Model
Cities funding only until a city had operated a Model Cities program for five years. The conference version, however,
would allow consideration of a declining percentage of Model Cities grants in the sixth through eighth years of a
program. This change would mean an increase in hold harmless funds for cities which had operated a Model Cities
program for more than five years.
Grant Entitlements
By adopting the formula approach, conferees rejected Senate provisions which would have limited automatic grant
entitlements during the first two-year funding period to communities which had participated in categorical urban
programs in the past. Under the Senate version, all other communities would have been eligible for grants only at
the HUD secretary's discretion.
Instead, conferees accepted, with minor modifications, the House provisions entitling all communities within
metropolitan areas with population of at least 50,000 and urban counties with population (excluding cities) of at least
200,000 to automatic grants. Smaller communities in metropolitan areas and rural communities which had carried on
at least one major categorical program in fiscal 1968–72 would receive hold harmless grants.
The conference committee also adopted the House provisions for distribution of block grant funds between urban
and rural areas. It reserved 80 per cent of appropriated funds for urban areas and 20 per cent for rural communities.
The Senate version would have provided a 75–25 split.
Eligible Activities
Conferees combined House and Senate provisions governing activities which the block grants could be used to
fund, but threw out specific Senate-passed restrictions on the use of funds. The key Senate restriction required
communities to use at least 80 per cent of their grants to aid low- or moderate-income families to eliminate blight.
Instead, conferees agreed, communities would have to satisfy HUD they were giving “maximum feasible priority” to
this.
Also dropped was a Senate provision which would have allowed communities to use no more than 20 per cent of
grant funds for provision of health, social, economic development and other public services. Conferees said,
however, that they did not expect any community to use more than 20 per cent of its funds for such services.
Conferees also eased a Senate restriction on use of funds for construction of many kinds of facilities. The
conference version allowed use of the funds for construction of neighborhood and senior citizens' centers, parking
facilities, fire stations, and solid waste disposal and flood protection facilities.
Application Requirements
Again like the House bill, the conference version would require communities seeking block grants to submit a three-
year summary of planned activities and a one-year specific application. The application would include a detailed
plan for housing assistance programs. The Senate bill would have required a four-year general plan and two-year
specific plan. Conferees did adopt a Senate provision waiving the application requirements for communities with
population under 25,000 seeking a grant for a single program designed to eliminate blight or upgrade community
facilities and services.
Authorizations
Authorizations proposed in the conference version also were closer to the House-passed amounts. Conferees
7/2/09 3:09 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 22 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224967&type=hitlist&num=11
Authorizations proposed in the conference version also were closer to the House-passed amounts. Conferees
approved authorizations for block grants of $2.5-billion in fiscal 1975, $2.95-billion in each of fiscal 1976 and 1977.
The House version would have provided $2.45-billion in 1975, $2.65-billion in 1976 and $2.95-billion in 1977; the
Senate authorized $2.8-billion in 1975 and $3.3-billion in 1976.
Conferees also adopted a House provision earmarking 2 per cent of appropriated funds for a special discretionary
fund. HUD could use the fund for emergency grants or to correct inequities caused by the formula approach.
While increasing the total House-passed authorization of $8.05-billion for the block grant program to $8.4-billion,
conferees chopped a $300-million House-passed authorization for special transitional needs in fiscal 1975–77 by
$100-million. In each of fiscal 1975 and 1976, $50-million would be available for transitional grants to communities
with urgent needs; $100-million was authorized for fiscal 1977.
Conferees dropped Senate-passed authorizations of up to $900-million through fiscal 1975 for urban renewal
programs. They agreed to House provisions authorizing open-ended sums for the categorical programs until the
block grant program took effect.
Assisted Housing Programs
Conferees agreed to extend the Section 235 and Section 236 programs through fiscal 1976, as provided in the
Senate bill, but reserved almost all new funding for the Section 23 leasing program dominating the House version.
Section 235
While extending the Section 235 homeownership program, conferees did not include any specific new funding
authority for it in the bill. The Senate version authorized $120-million in new funding for fiscal 1976.
Instead, conferees agreed that existing unused contract authority for the program could be used to fund new
commitments for one year after enactment. Any new funding in fiscal 1976 would be left up to the House and
Senate Appropriations Committees.
Conferees also tightened eligibility requirements in the Senate version, which allowed the subsidies to homeowners
with income up to 90 per cent of the median family income for a certain area. The conference version would drop
eligibility to an 80 per cent income level.
Section 236
Conferees did include $75-million in fiscal 1975 for new-funding of the Section 236 rental assistance program,
compared to a total authorization of $380-million in the Senate bill. Unused funds also would be available.
Conferees said they expected the HUD secretary to commit available funds when a community had demonstrated
that the Section 23 program did not fill its needs, suggesting that the amount of new activity in the Section 236
program would depend on local initiatives.
Conferees generally adopted Senate provisions governing operation of the revised Section 236 program. The
conference version earmarked at least 20 per cent of the new contracts for housing for the elderly or the
handicapped and at least 10 per cent for rehabilitation of existing housing.
Families with income up to 80 per cent of the area's median family income would be eligible for rental subsidies; the
Senate version would have allowed subsidies up to a 90 per cent income level. As provided in the Senate bill, the
HUD secretary could make additional subsidy payments for up to 20 per cent of the units in any one project. The
additional subsidies would aid those too poor to afford the basic rental charge, set at 20 to 25 per cent of income.
Section 23
As provided in the House bill, the new Section 23 program could be used to subsidize rents in newly constructed,
rehabilitated or existing housing. No subsidies would be available for homeownership.
Generally, maximum rents for the assisted units could not be more than 10 per cent above the fair market rental
established by HUD. Tenants would be required to pay between 15 and 25 per cent of their gross income toward
this rent, but large families and families with exceptional expenses would pay only 15 per cent. The rental
requirements followed the House version; the Senate bill would require a rental payment of 25 per cent of a tenant's
income adjusted by various deductions.
The conference and House versions extended eligibility for the subsidy payments to families with income up to 80
per cent of median family income in an area, but required that at least 30 per cent of the families assisted must
have income less than 50 per cent of the median income level. The Senate version would have required at least 20
per cent of the families assisted to have income below 50 per cent of the median income level.
Conferees also adopted House provisions governing the number of units in any one project which could be
subsidized under the new program. Up to 100 per cent of the units could be subsidized, but the HUD secretary
would be permitted to give preference to projects limiting subsidized units to 20 per cent if the projects were not
designed for the elderly or if they contained more than 50 units. The Senate bill would have allowed subsidy
payments for up to 75 per cent of the units in new housing and 25 per cent in existing projects.
7/2/09 3:09 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 23 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224967&type=hitlist&num=11
Housing for the Elderly
Conferees modified a House-passed provision authorizing HUD to borrow up to $1.5-billion from the Treasury to
reinstate an unsubsidized loan program (Section 202) for developers of housing for the elderly and handicapped.
The conference version would authorize $800-million in Treasury borrowing for the Section 202 program. Those
occupying the Section 202 units also would be eligible for assistance under the Section 23 program.
Public Housing Minimum Rents
Conferees modified one of the most controversial House-passed provisions not contained in the Senate bill. The
provision established a minimum rent for public housing units equal to the higher of 10 per cent of gross income or
the portion of welfare payments earmarked for rent. The conference version lowered the minimum to 5 per cent.
The conference committee also adopted a Senate-passed provision making one other major change in traditional
public housing programs. It would require at least 20 per cent of all new public housing units to be set aside for
families with income below 50 per cent of the median income in an area.
Authorizations, Allocation of Funds
In addition to the specific authorizations for the Section 236 and Section 202 programs, the conference version
included a total of $1.225-billion in new contract authority for assisted housing programs. The House version would
have authorized the same amount.
Conferees rejected Senate provisions which would have limited authorizations for the Section 23 program to $440-
million in each of fiscal 1975 and 1976. Instead, they earmarked $150-million of the total amount for the
development of new public housing; at least $75-million of the earmarked amount would be reserved for
development of traditional public housing.
“The conferees believe it is desirable to continue the conventional low-rent public housing program in tandem with
the new Section 23 program,” the report said, “at least until this new program has proven itself viable in all housing
market areas.”
Other Senate provisions earmarking use of housing funds were adopted. They would increase total operating
subsidies (including previously authorized funds of $280-million a year) to public housing authorities to a maximum
of $500-million in fiscal 1975 and $560-million in fiscal 1976 and earmark at least $15-million of the authorized funds
in each of fiscal 1975 and 1976 for public housing for Indians. Conferees dropped Senate provisions earmarking a
total of $60-million for modernization of public housing projects, but said they expected $40-million to be spent on
modernization in fiscal 1975.
Conferees compromised on distribution of housing assistance funds to rural and urban areas. The conference
version would allocate at least 20 per cent, but no more than 25 per cent, of housing assistance funds to rural
areas. The Senate version earmarked 25 per cent for rural areas, while the House bill reserved at least 20 per cent
for rural parts of the country. Funds also would be allocated to conform with approved local housing plans submitted
with a community development grant application.
Mortgage Credit
Conferees approved House provisions which would increase the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) mortgage
ceiling for single family homes to $45,000 from $33,000. The Senate bill would have based maximum amounts on
local building costs.
House and Senate provisions loosening cash down payment requirements for homes backed by FHA mortgages
were similar. They provided for a 3 per cent down payment for houses costing up to $25,000, an additional 10 per
cent payment on the cost between $25,000 and $35,000 and an additional 20 per cent payment on the cost
between $35,000 and $45,000. Because of adoption of the $45,000 mortgage amount ceiling, Senate-passed down
payment requirements for houses costing more than $45,000 were eliminated.
Other Provisions
Conferees accepted, with modifications, Senate provisions, not contained in the House bill, requiring HUD to
compensate owners of federally insured or assisted housing for defects posing serious danger to life or safety.
Compensation would be retroactive to Aug. 1, 1968. The provision was designed to reimburse owners who had paid
out of their own pockets for repairs caused by conditions not discovered by HUD or FHA inspections.
Comprehensive Planning
The conference version would authorize $130-million in fiscal 1975 and $150-million in fiscal 1976 for grants to local
and regional governments for general planning purposes. An additional $7-million, provided in the Senate version,
would be authorized for training of urban management personnel.
Rural Housing
Conferees agreed to increase slightly House-passed authorizations for a number of rural housing programs; the
7/2/09 3:09 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 24 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224967&type=hitlist&num=11
Conferees agreed to increase slightly House-passed authorizations for a number of rural housing programs; the
authorized amount was about $30-million less than the Senate-approved amount. Conferees dropped a Senate-
passed provision, not contained in the House version, which would have set up a new demonstration subsidy
program for rural homeownership.
Cash Allowance Experiment
New funding included in the Senate version for an experimental cash housing allowance program was agreed to by
conferees. The conference version would provide $40-million annually for the program. The House had no
comparable provisions. Conferees also barred use of Section 23 funds for the experiment after Dec. 31, 1974.
Rehabilitation Loans
Conferees adopted Senate-passed provisions extending, on a categorical basis, a program (Section 312) providing
low-interest loans to homeowners for rehabilitation of urban property. The House version folded the program into the
community development block grant program. The conference bill would continue the program for one year after
enactment and extend eligibility for the loans to all areas participating in the community development program.
Final Action
Senate
Although the Senate adopted the conference report by a unanimous 84–0 vote Aug. 13, several senators, including
members of the Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee, expressed their reservations about the final
version. (Vote 347, p. 58-S)
“The Senate conferees regretted having to concede on several provisions which we believed were sound,”
Sparkman told his colleagues. But Sparkman suggested that the conference version was a “fair product” and called
its continuation of the Section 235 and Section 236 programs at reduced funding levels “an excellent compromise.”
But Proxmire, ranking Democrat on the committee, said he had signed the conference report reluctantly because of
the Senate conferees' retreat on the existing subsidized housing programs. “Instead of authorizing full funding for
the low- and moderate-income housing subsidy programs,” he complained, “the conference report continues them
on a limited basis for a limited period subject to the future appropriation of funds.”
Another committee member, Edward W. Brooke (R Mass.), expressed disappointment that the Senate had been
forced to accept the House provisions establishing minimum rents for public housing tenants. “The effect of these
changes will be to raise the rent paid by many public housing tenants, particularly those on welfare when inflation is
already working severe hardships on these families' budgets,” Brooke predicted.
While he also was unhappy with some of the final provisions, Robert Taft Jr. (R Ohio) said that Senate conferees
merely faced the realistic political situation in the House.
“I am inclined to believe that considerably more insistence on the Senate provisions might have meant no bill at all,”
Taft said. “The result, in turn, would have been continued stalemate and lack of direction in our housing and urban
development programs.” The Senate could accept this bill now, he pointed out, and amend it if necessary in the
94th Congress.
Hubert H. Humphrey (D Minn.), one of the senators who wrote to Sparkman urging conferees to insist on the Senate
community development provisions, also said he could support the bill. But he asked Sparkman to reassure him that
the legislation would require new commitments under the Section 235 and Section 236 programs and that the
community development formula would be re-evaluated after three years. Sparkman said that Humphrey had
interpreted the bill correctly.
Humphrey also urged Congress to be prepared to increase development of lower-income housing if the legislation
were not adequate. “We are placing almost all of our housing effort for low-income families in one untried and
untested housing program,” he concluded. “In this situation, I believe it is incumbent on the Congress to closely
monitor the activity under the Section 23 program to see if it is working….”
House
The House adopted the report by a 377–21 vote on Aug. 15, completing congressional action. (Vote 355, p. 110-H)
There was little debate in the House Aug. 15 over the conference version, primarily because, as Thomas L. Ashley
(D Ohio) pointed out, the House position prevailed on key community development and housing provisions. House
members generally praised the final version.
“I would say this,” said Ashley, a key House architect of the bill, “that without any question, at least in my mind, this
is a truly monumental piece of legislation, one in which everyone in this body can take real pride and satisfaction.”
Herman Badillo (D N.Y.), however, condemned the measure as “nothing more than a cruel hoax foisted upon millions
of Americans who are in desperate need of suitable housing.” He found the bill's major reliance on the new Section
23 program unacceptable.
7/2/09 3:09 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 25 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224967&type=hitlist&num=11
John H. Rousselot (R Calif.), on the other hand, found the bill too comprehensive and costly. He said the conference
version noted the need to control inflation, but then “it spends merrily, as if to say, Tighten the belt on other
programs; leave this one alone.”
Features
Housing Authorizations
As cleared for the President, S 3066 authorized the following amounts in new contract authority or new
appropriations (the amounts do not include authorized ceilings on various kinds of payments for which open-ended
sums were authorized):
Program Total Authorization* [1] ( in millions of dollars)
Community development $ 8,600.00
Housing assistance 1,225.00
Section 236 rental  assistance 75.00
Housing for the elderly 800.00 [2]
Rural housing 112.25
Comprehensive planning 287.00
Urban homesteading 10.00
National Institute of Building Sciences 10.00
  Total $11,119.25
[1] Total authorizations are used because not all individual authorizations are designated by specific fiscal year. Generally,
authorized sums do not run beyond fiscal 1977.
[2] Treasury borrowing authority.
Urban Programs Covered by S 3066
The community development block-grant program proposed under S 3066 would consolidate the 10 following
categorical programs under a single funding mechanism:
Public facilities loans—loans to municipalities with populations under 50,000 for public works projects such as streets
and gas distribution lines. The program was authorized by the 1955 Housing Amendments. (Congress and the Nation
Vol. I, p. 487)
Advance planning grants—advance funds to communities to plan public works and other projects, repaid at the time of
construction. The program was authorized under the 1954 Housing Act. (Congress and the Nation Vol. I, p. 485)
Open space land programs—grants to states and localities for acquisition of open land for recreational and other
purposes. The program was authorized by the 1961 Housing Act. (Congress and the Nation Vol. I, p. 494)
Basic water and sewer facilities—grants to local governments to finance construction of water and sewer facilities
except waste treatment projects. The program was authorized under the 1965 Housing Act. (Congress and the Nation
Vol. II, p. 187)
Neighborhood facilities—grants to local public agencies for development of multipurpose neighborhood centers. The
program was authorized under the 1965 Housing Act. (Congress and the Nation Vol. II, p. 187)
Land acquisition—grants to local public agencies to help acquire land for future construction of facilities. The program
was authorized under the 1965 Housing Act. (Congress and the Nation Vol. II, p. 187)
Urban renewal—grants to local public agencies for slum clearance and rehabilitation of cleared areas. The program was
authorized under the 1949 Housing Act. (Congress and the Nation Vol. I, p. 478)
Code enforcement—grants to local public agencies for enforcement of local housing codes in order to reduce the need
for slum clearance. The program was authorized under the 1949 Housing Act. (Congress and the Nation Vol. I, p. 478)
Neighborhood development—grants to local public agencies to plan community development in urban renewal areas.
The program was authorized under the 1949 Housing Act and expanded to cover non-renewal areas in 1965.
(Congress and the Nation Vol. I, p. 478)
Model cities—grants to selected cities to restructure the entire environment of neighborhoods chosen for demonstration
projects. Funds could be used for education, antipoverty and other social programs as well as for housing and physical
improvements. The program was authorized under the 1966 Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan Development Act.
(Congress and the Nation Vol. II, p. 196)
Allocation of Housing Funds
While HR 15361 did not specifically earmark the $1.225-billion it would provide in new contract authority for specific
7/2/09 3:09 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 26 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal74-1224967&type=hitlist&num=11
While HR 15361 did not specifically earmark the $1.225-billion it would provide in new contract authority for specific
programs, HUD officials and chief sponsors of the bill had reached an informal agreement on allocation of the
housing funds as follows:
Expanded Section 23 leased housing program—$1.014-billion.
Commitments under traditional public housing programs—$50-million.
Modernization of public housing projects—$40-million.
Adjustments in existing contracts under Section 23—$11-million.
Increase in contract authority for operating subsidies for public housing projects—$110-million.
The bill would require HUD to use 20 per cent of the total contributions for public housing projects to aid the elderly
and handicapped and set aside 20 per cent of assistance under the Section 23 program for rural areas. Another
$20-million of the total amount would be earmarked for public housing for Indians and Alaskan natives.
Document Citation
"First Major Housing Bill  Since 1968 Enacted." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal74-1224967.
Originally published in CQ Almanac 1974 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1975).
http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal74-1224967 (accessed July 2, 2009).
Document ID: cqal74-1224967
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal74-1224967
© 1975, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
