2/8/10 1:42 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/docu…tion=print&time=1265654469730&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
Document Outline
House Action
Senate Action
Conference Action
Features
Interest Equalization Tax
An article from CQ Almanac 1973
Congress April 4 completed action on a bill (HR 3577—PL 93-17) providing a 15-month extension, through June 30, 1974, of the
interest equalization tax .
The purpose of the tax  was to stem the outflow of investment funds from the United States by making it as expensive for
foreign borrowers to obtain capital in U.S. financial markets as it was to obtain capital from other industrial nations. The tax
applied both to purchases of foreign stocks by Americans and to bank loans and other debt obligations.
The Nixon administration originally requested a two-year extension but subsequently announced it planned to phase out the 
interest equalization tax  by the end of 1974. The administration counted on improvements in the economy and in the U.S.
balance of payments, in addition to basic monetary reforms, to remove the need for the tax .
Provisions. As cleared by Congress, HR 3577:
Extended the interest equalization tax  through June 30, 1974.
Extended the interest equalization tax  through June 30, 1974.
Exempted from U.S. estate taxes nonresident alien securities issued in foreign markets by U.S. companies for financing foreign
operations if such companies elected to make the securities subject to the interest equalization tax .
Eliminated the existing interest equalization tax  exemption on acquisition of stock or debt obligations of a shipping corporation in
an under-developed nation.
Exempted from the interest equalization tax  the acquisition of a stock or debt obligation issued by a foreign company to finance
new or additional direct investment in the United States, subject to certain conditions.
Expanded the exemption from the tax  for export credit transactions to cover acquisitions by any U.S. citizen of a foreign debt
obligation acquired in connection with the sale or lease of U.S.-made property or the performance of services by a U.S. citizen, if such
acquisitions were reasonably necessary to accomplish the sale or lease.
Background. The tax , originally enacted in 1964 but made retroactive to 1963, was proposed as a temporary measure to
reduce the U.S. balance-of-payments deficit. It was designed to bring lower interest  rates in the United States more in line
with higher rates in foreign money markets and, thereby, remove the incentive for foreigners to borrow funds in the United States
and for Americans to invest in foreign securities. (Congress and the Nation Vol. I, p. 384; Vol. II p. 144, 162; Vol. III, p. 121)
The tax  was levied on the purchase price of foreign-issued securities bought by Americans in order to equalize the
differential between prevailing interest  rates in the United States and abroad. The law gave the President discretionary
authority to raise or lower the tax  so that it continued to neutralize this difference in interest  rates.
The Nixon administration in January requested a two-year extension of the tax  beyond its scheduled March 31, 1973,
expiration. (Previous extension, 1971 Almanac p. 425)
In announcing a 10 per cent dollar devaluation on Feb. 12, Treasury Secretary George P. Shultz said the President intended to
eliminate the interest equalization tax  and other capital export controls by the end of 1974. (Devaluation, this chapter)
House Action
Committee. The House Ways and Means Committee Feb. 5 recommended a 15-month extension of the interest equalization
2/8/10 1:42 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/docu…tion=print&time=1265654469730&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
Committee. The House Ways and Means Committee Feb. 5 recommended a 15-month extension of the interest equalization
tax  on foreign stocks and debt obligations.
In reporting a bill (HR 3577—H Rept 93-7) continuing the tax  through June 30, 1974, the committee said a temporary
extension was needed so “this Congress may have an opportunity to review the tax  after a period during which progress
may have been made in international financial negotiations.”
The committee termed the tax  “a transitional device to permit orderly progress to a satisfactory long-run solution to the
balance-of-payments problem faced by the United States.” Without the tax , the report added, increased borrowing in the
United States by foreigners would add to the persistent U.S. deficit in over-all financial transactions with other nations.
As currently applied, the tax  in effect raised the interest  paid by foreigners on capital from U.S. sources by the
equivalent of 0.75 per cent. The law also gave the President discretionary authority to vary the tax  between zero and the
equivalent of 1.5 per cent in interest .
The committee recommended three minor modifications in the existing tax , including exemption for certain stock or debt
obligation issues by foreigners intended for investment in the United States.
On Jan. 30, Treasury Under Secretary Paul A. Volcker told the committee that, while the administration hoped to move away from
capital restraint programs, it was unable to do so at that time because of its balance-of-payments problems and involvement in
monetary reform negotiations.
Floor. The House Feb. 27, by a 358-23 recorded vote, passed HR 3577, extending the interest equalization tax  through
June 30, 1974. (Vote 15, p. 8-H)
Deferring to the judgment of the Nixon administration and the Ways and Means Committee on the complexities of international
economic policy, the House Feb. 27 gave routine approval to a 15-month extension of the interest equalization tax .
Despite growing concern over the U.S. balance of payments deficit in the wake of a second dollar devaluation in 14 months, the
House gave only cursory debate to extension of the tax , enacted to curb outflows of U.S. capital to other nations. And
notwithstanding the congressional outcry against the accumulation of powers by the executive branch, the House spent little time
discussing the merits of the tax  itself, which gave the President discretionary authority to lower the tax  on new securities
issues and apply the tax  to bank loans and other debt obligations.
Although an “open rule” allowing amendments from the floor was given to a tax  bill for the first time since 1932, no
amendments to the version of HR 3577 reported by the Ways and Means Committee were introduced. (Box, preceding page)
In debate on HR 3577, a further temporary extension of the tax  was defended as necessary to improve the U.S. payments
balance while far-reaching international monetary reforms were being negotiated.
“Under today's conditions,” said Rep. Al Ullman (D Ore.), ranking Ways and Means Committee Democrat, “a continuation of the 
interest equalization tax  is clearly needed.”
Whether it should be extended past June 30, 1974, “is a decision we can make next year after we have seen what progress has
been made in the negotiations on tariff and non-tariff (trade) barriers,” he added.
“While the interest equalization tax  at best is a solution to only a very small part of our balance-of-payments problem,”
Ullman explained, “nevertheless I think it is clear that we should not abandon it now.”
By providing only a 15-month extension, said Herman T. Schneebeli (Pa.), ranking Ways and Means Republican, Congress would
emphasize “our continuing concern about long-term reliances on devices of this type in contrast to permanent arrangements
which go to the underlying causes of our balance-of-payments problems.”
Charles A. Vanik (D Ohio), a Ways and Means Committee member, supported the extension “only as a temporary expedient” and
criticized the administration for failing to curb direct overseas investments by U.S. corporations.
As debate on HR 3577 ended, Teno Roncalio (D Wyo.) and H.R. Gross (R Iowa) criticized the failure of the House to thoroughly
consider the issues raised by extension of the tax .
“We are about to pass judgment on a piece of legislation,” Roncalio complained, “and I doubt very much if there are 15 members
of the 435 members of this House who know what we are doing.
“Why do we persist in such cursory treatment of such an important matter?” he asked. “Do we recognize, my colleagues, that we
have abandoned our powers and still further allow an erosion of our rights to the executive department, in this case the
Treasury?”
“I am sick and tired,” Gross added, “of listening to members of Congress…rave about the usurpation of power on the part of the
President. He is not usurping power; the Congress has been giving it to him year after year after year.
“There is scarcely a piece of major legislation that does not come to the floor of the House that does not contain some variation
of this language: ‘If the President deems it to be in the national interest ,' or, ‘if the President deems it to be in the national
security' he can do thus and so.”
Roncalio: “We do this House no good when we pass legislation willy-nilly with erosion of our own authority and delegation of the
2/8/10 1:42 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/docu…tion=print&time=1265654469730&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
Roncalio: “We do this House no good when we pass legislation willy-nilly with erosion of our own authority and delegation of the
lawmaking power to downtown bureaucracies as we do in this bill today.”
HR 3577 was passed by a 358-23 recorded vote with 11 Republicans and 12 Democrats voting against, including Gross and
Roncalio.
Provisions. As passed by the House, HR 3577:
Extended the interest equalization tax  through June 30, 1974, from March 31, 1973.
Exempted from U.S. estate taxes on nonresident aliens, securities issued in foreign markets by U.S. companies for financing foreign
operations if the company elected to make the securities subject to the interest equalization tax .
Eliminated the existing interest equalization tax  exemption on acquisition of stock or debt obligations of a shipping corporation in
an underdeveloped nation.
Exempted from the interest equalization tax  the acquisition of a stock or debt obligation issued by a foreign company to finance
new or additional direct investment in the United States, subject to certain conditions.
Senate Action
Committee. The Senate Finance Committee March 22 unanimously reported HR 3577 (H Rept 93-84) after amending it to
provide a two-year extension of the interest equalization tax .
The committee warned that termination of the tax  at this time would make the U.S. money markets, with their lower 
interest  rates and increased familiarity with foreign securities, “highly attractive” to foreign borrowers.
“It is particularly necessary to avoid a large-scale increase in capital outflows at the present time because our trade account is in
deficit and cannot play its traditional role of providing a surplus to offset capital account deficits. Any increase in capital outflows
would therefore directly add to our balance-of-payments deficit,” the report stated.
The Finance Committee voted to extend the tax  through March 31, 1975, rather than accept the June 30, 1974, expiration
date set by the House. The committee also accepted three House amendments with minor modifications and adopted one
additional substantive amendment, expanding the exemption for export credit transactions.
Floor. The Senate March 27 passed HR 3577 by an 83-3 roll-call vote. (Vote 64, p. 12-S)
Weary of waiting for the administration's long-promised tax  reform proposals, the Senate, during routine consideration of
legislation to extend the interest equalization tax  on foreign stocks and debt obligations March 27, attached an amendment
to require the secretary of the Treasury to submit a tax  reform plan to Congress.
The Senate then passed HR 3577 extending the interest equalization tax  through March 31, 1975.
Voting against the bill were James L. Buckley (Cons.-R N.Y.), Peter H. Dominick (R Colo.) and James A. McClure (R Idaho).
Finance Committee Chairman Russell B. Long (D La.) expressed some skepticism that the tax  could be eliminated in 1974:
“…the committee is by no means sure that Congress will want to permit capital flows out of the United States free of tax
after 1974.
“Had we extended the tax  only until December 1974, since the Congress is unlikely to be in session in December, we might
at that time be powerless to act if an additional extension beyond the end of December were necessary. The March 1975 date
will give us plenty of time to consider the future of this tax  during a period we are likely to be in session,” Long explained.
Kennedy Amendment. Before passage, the Senate voted to prod the administration on another tax  question—that of reform
of the U.S. tax  structure.
“It is long past time for the administration to inform Congress and the American people about its plans on the critical issue of 
tax  reform,” Edward M. Kennedy (D Mass.) told the Senate, in offering an amendment to require the secretary of the Treasury to
submit to Congress within 120 days of enactment of the bill proposals for a comprehensive reform of the Internal Revenue Code.
“Congress ought to have the benefit of the administration's views on tax  reform, and we ought to have them now, as the
debate in Congress and across the country begins to move into high gear,” Kennedy declared.
Hubert H. Humphrey (D Minn.) and Jacob K. Javits (R N.Y.) also spoke in favor of the amendment, which was adopted by a voice
vote.
Conference Action
Report. The conference report on HR 3577 was filed March 28 (H Rept 93–95).
2/8/10 1:42 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/docu…tion=print&time=1265654469730&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
House and Senate conferees March 28 agreed to the House-approved extension of the tax  through June 30, 1974.
They approved the Senate modifications to the House amendments dealing with exemptions to the tax , as well as the
Senate's only major change expanding the exemption for export credit transactions. Other minor modifications by the Senate
were agreed to.
Senate conferees agreed to delete the Kennedy amendment, requiring the administration to submit its tax  reform proposals
to Congress, because the secretary of the Treasury was scheduled to appear April 30 before the House Ways and Means
Committee to present the President's reform plans. ( Tax  reform hearings, this chapter)
Final Action. The conference report was approved by the Senate March 29 by voice vote and the House April 4 by a 396-18
recorded vote. (Vote 39, p. 16-H)
Features
Amending Opportunity Lost
The 410 members of the House who were not on the Ways and Means Committee passed up a rare opportunity Feb. 27 to offer
amendments to a tax  bill reported by the committee. It was the first such bill given an “open rule”—allowing floor
amendments—in almost 41 years.
In a departure from a tradition followed since the late 1920s, the House Rules Committee granted an open rule allowing floor
amendments to a bill (HR 3577) extending the interest equalization tax  for 15 months. Under usual House practice, tax
bills and other economic legislation reported by the Ways and Means Committee were considered under closed rules forbidding
members not on the committee from offering amendments from the floor.
During the brief Feb. 27 debate on HR 3577, however, no amendments were proposed.
Before Feb. 27, the last tax  bill considered on the House floor with amendments allowed was the Revenue Act of 1932,
passed by the House on April 1, 1932. That measure was considered without a formal rule, and a floor amendment was adopted
deleting a controversial committee provision imposing a manufacturers' sales tax.
During the 92nd Congress, the House Rules Committee granted 13 closed or modified closed rules and 191 open rules,
according to an informal tally by Bill Crosby, committee minority counsel.
Document Citation
"Interest Equalization Tax." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal73-1228081. Originally published in CQ Almanac
1973 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1974). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal73-1228081 (accessed February 8, 2010).
Document ID: cqal73-1228081
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal73-1228081
© 1974, 2010, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
