7/2/09 3:38 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 6http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal75-1214705&type=hitlist&num=12
Housing Industry
1995 Housing Legislation Weighs
Senior Housing, Affordable
Housing, and Aid to the Homeless
1982 Efforts to Revise Housing
Programs Collapse
1978 Home Insulation Safety
1976 Housing and Urban Affairs 1976:
Overview
1975 Housing and Urban Affairs, 1975
Overview
1975 Congress Clears Real Estate
Settlement Bill
1975 Condominiums: Federal
Regulation Debated
1974 Housing and Urban Affairs 1974:
Overview
1971 Housing for the Elderly
Federal, Subsidized or Low Income
Housing
Homelessness
Rural Development
Urban Development
Congress Clears Real Estate Settlement Bill
An article from CQ Almanac 1975
Document Outline
Provisions
Legislative Background
Senate
House
Senate Amendment
Compromise
Features
After House-Senate conferees worked out a last-minute compromise,
Congress Dec. 19 sent the President legislation (S 2327) that would repeal
provisions of a 1974 law (PL 93-533) giving homebuyers the right to find out
what real estate settlement charges they must pay at least 12 days before
they complete the sale transaction. Common settlement charges, such as title
insurance premiums, real estate commissions and lawyers' fees, can add
thousands of dollars to the cost of buying a house.
President Ford signed the bill into law (PL 94 - 205 ) on Jan. 2, 1976.
While repealing the 12-day advance disclosure requirement, the final version
of S 2327 required lenders to give homebuyers an estimated range of
settlement charges when they applied for a mortgage loan. Homebuyers also
could find out whatever actual charges had been set at least one business
day before settlement.
Other provisions of the bill killed requirements of the 1974 law designed to disclose excessive profits by real estate
speculators and streamlined the paperwork involved in preparing a list of charges for use at settlement.
Lenders had led a persuasive lobbying campaign against the requirements of the 1974 bill. They argued that the law
created unnecessary paperwork, increased lending costs and caused moving delays.
Opponents of the bill claimed that it would make it impossible for consumers to shop for the least expensive
settlement services, the purpose of the original 12-day advance disclosure requirement. “This bill is an out-and-out
real estate industry triumph over the homebuying public,” complained Rep. Leonor K. Sullivan (D Mo.).
The House ignored this argument and voted overwhelmingly Nov. 17 to repeal the 12-day advance disclosure
requirement and simply require lenders to give homebuyers a range of possible charges when they applied for a
loan. The Senate insisted Dec. 8 that homebuyers should have the chance to find out exact charges at least one
day before settlement.
House-Senate conferees resolved the stalemate Dec. 19 by deciding to give homebuyers the right to find out
whatever exact charges had been fixed by the day before settlement. The conference compromise did not require
lenders, or others conducting a settlement, to make any special effort to gather charge information by the day before
settlement. The compromise also did not require lender to disclose any information in advance unless the
homebuyer requested it.
The Senate and then the House adopted the report (H Rept 94 –769) on the conference agreement by voice
votes on Dec. 19, completing action before adjournment.
Provisions
As cleared for the President, S 2327:
Allowed regional variations in the items included on a standard form setting forth settlement charges.
Required lenders to give homebuyers a booklet describing common settlement charges and good faith estimates of the
range of charges likely to be paid when they applied in writing for a mortgage loan.
 
7/2/09 3:38 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 6http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal75-1214705&type=hitlist&num=12
range of charges likely to be paid when they applied in writing for a mortgage loan.
Repealed provisions of a 1974 law (PL 93-533) requiring lenders to disclose exact settlement costs at least 12 days
before actual settlement; instead, required the person conducting the settlement to make available for a homebuyer's
inspection whatever exact charge information he had on hand one business day before settlement.
Repealed provisions of the 1974 law barring lenders from making a loan commitment if the seller did not inform the
buyer of the previous purchase price of a house bought within the last two years that was not used as a place of
residence by the seller.
Clarified that provisions of the 1974 law prohibiting kickbacks between those in the real estate industry did not apply to
cooperative brokerage and referral arrangements of real estate agents.
Modified provisions of the 1974 law barring lenders from collecting and holding in escrow more than one months' worth
of advance property taxes and insurance premiums to allow two months' worth of escrow payments.
Expanded the authority of the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to implement the 1974 act.
Provided that the changes in the 1974 law would take effect upon enactment; allowed HUD to suspend the new
disclosure requirements for up to six months.
Legislative Background
Enactment of the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act of 1974 (PL 93-533) followed four years of controversy
touched off by reports of unreasonably high settlement charges in some parts of the country.
The basic provisions of the law require lenders to distribute booklets describing common settlement charges, to use
a standard form to disclose charges and to give buyers the form at least 12 days before the actual closing. Other
provisions prohibit kickbacks between those in the settlement industry and require some sellers to disclose the
previous purchase price of investment property to prospective buyers.
Although Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee Chairman William Proxmire (D Wis.) and consumer
organizations maintained during the 1974 debate that these provisions did not go far enough, the key legislative
battle over the bill had focused on another issue—whether Congress should repeal a law giving the Department of
Housing and Urban Development (HUD) authority to set standards for allowable settlement charges for homes
financed with federally insured mortgages. Congress rejected industry-backed efforts to repeal this law, which never
had been used by HUD (Background, provisions, 1974 Almanac p. 367)
Senate
Committee Hearings
During hearings before the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee in September, lenders detailed
some of the problems the law was causing them and their customers. They were particularly critical of the 12-day
waiting period between disclosure and settlement and the use of the detailed disclosure form developed by HUD.
The paperwork required by the law, said Edwin Brooks Jr. of the U.S. League of Savings Associations, was driving
up the cost of making a mortgage loan. A league survey found that increased processing costs averaged $35 a
loan. Because of the paperwork and statutory waiting period, Brooks added, savings and loans institutions also
reported that it was taking 11.5 days longer to settle a homebuying transaction.
The law “is not good consumer legislation because it appears to increase rather than reduce closing costs,” agreed
J. Rex Duwe of the American Bankers Association. By delaying settlement, he noted, the law also was forcing
some homebuyers to pay for motel rooms while they waited for the 12-day disclosure period to pass.
David L. Teeter, an Elmira, N.Y., real estate attorney, wrote HUD about how the law had caused another problem for
some of his clients. He reported that one couple had postponed their wedding date because of delays caused by the
act.
As a result, lenders told the committee, homebuyers were unhappy with the law and confused by its requirements.
But Robert R. Elliott, HUD general counsel, told the committee that the department had received only a few
comments from consumers about the law.
In his testimony before the committee, Elliott included one letter from a consumer praising the law. But he said later
that the few consumer letters HUD had received could not be put in any general category.
Kathleen F. O'Reilly of the Consumer Federation of America also called it a fact of life that most consumers would not
go out of their way to praise a law, so that complaints would be highlighted.
While HUD planned a more extensive investigation of consumer experience with the law, Elliott's office had
conducted a quick poll of 23 homebuyers affected by the law. The limited survey produced rather mixed results.
7/2/09 3:38 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 6http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal75-1214705&type=hitlist&num=12
conducted a quick poll of 23 homebuyers affected by the law. The limited survey produced rather mixed results.
Nineteen of the homebuyers said that the informational material they received under the act had been helpful and
17 said that the estimated settlement charges disclosed in advance were accurate.
Only two homebuyers reported that their closing had been delayed by the 12-day waiting period.
Shopping Around
At the same time, Elliott said that only three of the homebuyers reported that they had shopped around for
settlement services. “People just don't shop,” argued Lee Holmes of the U.S. League of Savings Associations. “They
don't shop for home mortgage money like they do for a car loan.”
But O'Reilly said that even if most consumers do not shop for settlement services, that is no reason to deny the
opportunity by eliminating the advance disclosure period. She argued that greater efforts should be made to
educate consumers.
Legislative Recommendations
Brooks, Duwe and other mortgage lenders urged the Banking Committee to repeal the law or its most troublesome
provisions. Proxmire made it clear that he preferred to try to keep some features of the law while simplifying its
application, but indicated some agreement with the lenders' position.
“I hesitate to climb in bed with the American Bankers Association,” he told Duwe, “but at the same time I must say
that I'm inclined to agree that we'd be better off not to have any law than to have the law we have.”
But O'Reilly objected strongly to repeal, particularly of the advance disclosure requirement. “…A mere three months
after the legislation's enactment, serious thought is being given to an abandonment of the most meaningful provision
of the legislation,” she complained. “The Consumer Federation of America is stunned and outraged at this
development, particularly in light of the transparently self-serving arguments advanced by the settlement industry
opposition.”
Benny L. Kass, a Washington, D.C., attorney who is involved in consumer housing issues, also maintained that it was
meaningless to require any disclosure of settlement charges unless disclosure was made in advance of closing. He
contended that there was no indication so far that the settlement industry could not live with the law. O'Reilly agreed
that Congress should not change it so quickly.
Compromises, Other Approaches
Because of the general acknowledgement that outright repeal of the law probably was not politically feasible,
lenders explored some possible compromise steps during the September hearings. Representatives of public interest
groups also suggested some more direct ways to get at the problem of excessive settlement costs.
While Congress looked at more permanent changes, both the American Bankers Association and U.S. League of
Savings Associations recommended approval of legislation (S 2327) sponsored by Senators Jake Garn (R Utah) and
Robert Morgan (D N.C.). As introduced by Garn and Morgan, the bill would have indefinitely suspended provisions of
the act requiring use of the uniform disclosure form, the 12-day disclosure period and disclosure of the previous
selling price of a house bought as an investment property.
There also was some general agreement that preparing the disclosure form would be less onerous if the form were
streamlined and adjusted to reflect the types of charges encountered in local areas of the country. Lenders also
gave some support to the idea of including the likely range of settlement charges in explanatory booklets given to
homebuyers when they apply for a mortgage loan.
Lender groups also stressed that many lenders voluntarily had provided advance disclosure of settlement costs
before the 1974 law took effect because it was a good business practice. “They want the guy who gets the loan to
go away happy,” Holmes of the U.S. League of Savings Associations said.
Lender-Pay Approach
Alan Morrison of the Ralph Nader-affiliated Public Citizen Inc. and Dale A. Whitman, a former HUD official who has
followed the real estate settlement issue closely, recommended a different approach. They maintained that lenders
should pay settlement charges, which homebuyers would pay off during a long period of time through higher interest
rates.
Morrison argued that the lender-pay approach was the best way to hold down costs because lenders had the
“economic muscle” to obtain settlement services at the lowest possible cost. Proxmire, who had sponsored several
lender-pay proposals in the past, agreed that the approach “makes all the sense in the world,” but doubted whether
he could get lender-pay legislation through Congress. Lenders questioned whether the approach would work on a
national basis.
Garn also criticized a mandatory lender-pay plan, arguing that it would allow lenders to hide too many costs in their
interest rates. O'Reilly of the consumer federation questioned whether lenders actually would pass on any savings in
settlement charges to their customers.
Committee Action
7/2/09 3:38 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 6http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal75-1214705&type=hitlist&num=12
Pressed to act quickly by Garn and Morgan, the Senate Banking Committee unanimously approved an amended
version of their suspension bill on Oct. 2 and filed a report (S Rept 94 –410) on Oct. 6. The amendments limited
the suspension of the three key provisions to one year.
“It is important to suspend these cumbersome procedures as quickly as possible to relieve the consumer from the
delays in real estate settlements and the industry from the burdensome paperwork,” the committee argued.
Floor Action
Proxmire called the bill up for quick voice vote approval when the Senate opened its session Oct. 9, a move that
infuriated O'Reilly of the consumer federation.
O'Reilly maintained that there was no need to pass the suspension bill so quickly because agreement was close on
a more permanent compromise and because the House would not even begin to consider a bill until late October.
From a political standpoint, she argued, passage of the suspension bill deprived the Senate of some leverage over
lenders.
James Abourezk (D S.D.) raised the same argument on the Senate floor, complaining that “the urgency of
suspending for one year escapes me.” But although he agreed to offer the federation's arguments, Abourezk said he
did not oppose the bill and did not try to delay its passage.
‘Pulling Out the Rug’
Substantive arguments aside, O'Reilly also was piqued that Proxmire, who had won the support of consumer
organizations in other legislative fights, ignored the federation's desire to work out an acceptable compromise before
the suspension bill was passed. “My God, they just pulled the rug out from us,” she complained.
Kenneth A. McLean, committee staff director, countered that neither he nor Proxmire had given the federation any
assurances that the suspension bill would be held up while the committee worked on a compromise. Other Banking
Committee sources noted that sentiment on the panel heavily favored the suspension bill and that Proxmire had
agreed to move the bill quickly.
McLean also argued that it would take time to reach agreement on permanent amendments with the House, while
noting that the suspension bill would relieve some of the pressure on Congress to act. An industry spokesman
suggested half-jokingly that Proxmire just did not want to hear any more complaints about the act from lenders.
Staff Compromise
Staff aides to Republican and Democratic members of the Senate Banking Committee drew up a possible
compromise bill making more permanent changes in the law just before the Columbus Day recess in mid-October.
Their proposal would require lenders to give homebuyers booklets containing good faith estimates of possible closing
costs when they applied for a loan. The “settlement agent,” who is not necessarily the lender in some parts of the
country, also would have to give homebuyers a statement of settlement charges at least one business day prior to
closing, but the buyer could waive this requirement. The bill would trim down the number of items on the uniform
disclosure form and make it easier to adjust the form for local variations. Another provision would repeal the
provision requiring disclosure of the previous selling price of some investment properties.
House
The House Nov. 17 enthusiastically approved legislation (S 2327) that would rewrite major provisions of the 1974
settlement law.
As passed by the House, S 2327 would repeal the provisions of the law requiring the 12-day disclosure period and
simply stipulate that charges should be disclosed “at or before” settlement, when they are paid. Lenders also would
have to give homebuyers a booklet when they applied for a mortgage loan that would include a range of likely
settlement charges and describe common settlement services.
To simplify the paperwork involved, the bill also would allow modification of the standard form used to disclose
charges to reflect local practices. Another provision of the bill would repeal a section of the 1974 law requiring those
selling a house they had bought recently as an investment property to disclose the price they had paid for it.
The bill was generally acceptable to lenders and consumer groups, including the Consumer Federation of America.
But a small group of House members contended that the bill would gut the consumer protection features of 1974
law. They called repeal of the advance disclosure provision unnecessary, pointing out that Department of Housing
and Urban Development (HUD) regulations already allowed buyers to reduce the disclosure period to one day.
The Senate version of S 2327, passed Oct. 9, merely would suspend the key provisions of the 1974 law for a year,
but the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee agreed Nov. 19 to recommend that the Senate
accept the House version of the bill with an amendment that would give homebuyers a one-day advance disclosure
period.
7/2/09 3:38 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 6http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal75-1214705&type=hitlist&num=12
Committee Action
The Banking, Currency and Housing Committee reported (H Rept 94 –667) the bill on Nov. 14 by a 31-5 vote.
The opponents were all Democrats.
Based on the complaints it had heard, the committee concluded that the 1974 law had caused confusion and
settlement delays instead of helping consumers. The changes proposed in S 2327 would reaffirm the purposes of
the 1974 act, the committee argued, but make the law workable.
Specifically, the committee contended that giving homebuyers booklets containing an estimated range of charges
would retain the principle of advance disclosure, while easing the “rigid and onerous” requirements of the 1974 law
that had proved burdensome to everyone.
“Armed with the special information booklet, at an early stage,…the prospective borrower is adequately equipped to
shop, or not to shop if he so wishes, for settlement services, or to question, or not to question, the reasonableness
of a settlement charge,” the committee argued. “No amount of federal requirements and red tape can substitute for
an informed consumer who can insist on fair dealings and say ‘no’ to unreasonable charges.”
The committee also defended its decision to repeal the provision of the 1974 law requiring some sellers to disclose
the previous purchase price of a house, a provision aimed at real estate speculators. The committee called the
objective of the provision “unassailable,” but maintained that it was too vaguely worded to work properly.
Dissenting View
In a lonely dissent, Leonor K. Sullivan (D Mo.) blasted the committee's decision to repeal key consumer protection
features of the 1974 act less than five months after the law took effect in June.
“It took five years of hard work and some bitter battles…to enact a law last year to protect homebuyers against
predatory abuses, unconscionable overcharges and flagrant ‘featherbedding’ practices in the transfer of residential
real estate,” she complained. “It is now taking only five months of real estate industry lobbying pressure to convert
that law into a hollow shell which would permit elements of the industry to resume doing many of the very things
which made the original law necessary.”
Sullivan pointed out that although the bill would require lenders to give homebuyers a range of charges before
settlement, buyers would not get a list of exact charges until the day they had to be paid.
Sullivan also argued that repealing the requirement for disclosure of the previous selling price of an investment
property would protect real estate speculators.
Floor Action
The House passed the bill by a 379-21 vote under the suspension of the rules procedure barring floor amendments.
Most of the opponents were liberal Democrats. (Vote 523, p. 160-H)
Almost all of the Democrats and Republicans who spoke during floor debate agreed with Banking Committee
Chairman Henry S. Reuss' (D Wis.) assessment of the 1974 law. “In making changes in [the act], we feel that a
number of provisions of the act…missed the mark and are counterproductive, period,” Reuss said.
Sullivan again contended that the bill was harmful to consumers and unnecessary because regulations issued by
HUD had eased many of the problems the act had caused when it first took effect. She also criticized use of the
suspension of the rules procedure that made it impossible for the House to consider changing the bill.
“An anti-consumer bill of this nature should certainly not be jammed through on a take-it-or-leave-it basis without
any opportunity for amendments,” she insisted. “It is a bad bill designed to accomplish the most selfish goals of an
industry whose own excesses made necessary the enactment of the [1974] law in the first place.”
Senate Amendment
On Dec. 8, the Senate by voice vote refused to go along with the House bill repealing the 12-day advance
disclosure requirement and simply requiring lenders to give homebuyers a range of possible charges when they
applied for a loan. The Senate's version of S 2327, passed Oct. 9, would have suspended the disclosure and other
provisions of the law for one year.
The Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee agreed with most of the House-passed changes in the
bill, but opposed complete repeal of the disclosure requirement. It prepared an amendment, approved by the Senate
by voice vote Dec. 8, that would require disclosure of charges at least one business day before settlement.
William Proxmire (D Wis.), chairman of the Senate committee, argued that the amendment was a reasonable
compromise between a 12-day disclosure period and none at all. In fact, existing regulations issued by the
Department of Housing and Urban Development allowed a homebuyer to reduce the 12-day disclosure period to
one day at his discretion.
Senate approval of the amendment returned the bill to the House, where opposition to any disclosure requirement
7/2/09 3:38 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 6http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal75-1214705&type=hitlist&num=12
Senate approval of the amendment returned the bill to the House, where opposition to any disclosure requirement
remained strong. The House Banking, Currency and Housing Committee had rejected an amendment that would
have provided a one-day disclosure period.
Compromise
House and Senate conferees filed a report Dec. 19 (H Rept 94–769) accepting the Senate amendment giving
homebuyers the right to find out whatever charges had been fixed by at least one business day before settlement.
The initiative for requesting information on such charges was left to the purchaser.
The Senate and House adopted the conference report Dec. 19 on voice votes.
Features
Common Settlement Charges
Buyers and sellers of homes generally must pay some of the following standard charges to “settle” the actual
transfer of a property to a new owner:
Title search or examination fee: a fee paid for examination of the history of transfers of the property title to ensure
that there are no outstanding claims to the property; paid by the buyer. [1]
Title insurance: insurance to protect the lending institution (which is financing the mortgage) or the new owner
against the cost of outstanding claims to the property; paid by the buyer. [1]
Field survey: a survey to establish the exact boundaries of a property; paid by the buyer.
Loan origination fees: fees (generally up to 1 per cent of the mortgage loan principal) charged by a lending
institution to “originate” a mortgage loan; paid by the buyer.
Other closing charges: charges including attorneys' fees for preparation of documents and other services, charges
for appraisal of a property's value, credit report fees, pest inspection costs and other costs; generally paid by the
buyer.
Realtor sales commission: sales commission (usually between 5 and 7 per cent of the property's sale price) to a
real estate agent; paid by the seller.
Discount point payments: payments required by the lending institution to make up the difference between the
going market mortgage interest rate and a lower maximum interest rate for a federally backed mortgage (each
“point” equals 1 per cent of the sale price); generally paid by the seller, but passed on to the buyer through a higher
sale price.
Statutory charges: charges required by law for recording of deeds or for state and local property transfer taxes;
paid by the buyer.
Prepaid items: prepayment of charges for property taxes, fire or mortgage insurance, and mortgage interest costs
between the closing date and the date of the first required mortgage payment (lending institutions usually hold these
prepaid amounts in an “escrow” account not paying interest); paid by the buyer.
Notes
[1] In the western half of the United States these charges and others may be paid by the seller.
Document Citation
"Congress Clears Real Estate Settlement Bill." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal75-1214705.
Originally published in CQ Almanac 1975 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1976).
http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal75-1214705 (accessed July 2, 2009).
Document ID: cqal75-1214705
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal75-1214705
© 1976, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
