7/2/09 3:35 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal75-1214669&type=hitlist&num=1
Mortgages
2007 Tightening Reins on Mortgage
Lenders
2007 Debate Over Fannie, Freddie
Shifts
2007 Bills Aim to Ease Mortgage
Crunch
2005 Attempts to Rein In Mortgage
Giants Stall
1997 Mortgage Insurance Bill Advances
1994 Second Supplemental Keeps
Mortgage Programs Alive
1993 FHA Foreclosure Bill Awaits Final
Action
1990 Mortgage ‘Prepayment’
Compromise
1990 Federal Housing Administration
(FHA) Insurance Program Shored
Up
1989 Congress Raises Ceiling for
Federal Housing Administration
(FHA) Mortgage Loans
1983 Mortgage Revenue Bonds
1983 Mortgage Aid Fails
1980 Housing Authorization
1979 Tax-Exempt Mortgage Bonds
1975 Congress Clears ‘Redlining’
Legislation
1975 Congress Blocks Variable
Mortgage Rate Plan
1974 Congress Votes Emergency
Mortgage Aid
1972 Mortgage Settlement Costs
1970 Congress Clears Emergency Home
Finance Act Of 1970
1967 Home Ownership Bills not
Enacted in 1967
1966 Funds Provided FNMA to Help
Housing Industry
1966 “Participations” Approved as
Borrowing Device
1960 Emergency Housing Bill
1957 Congress Expands Housing
Programs
1954 Omnibus Housing Act Of 1954
1953 Housing Amendments
Banking
Housing Appropriations
Savings and Loan Industry
Congress Clears ‘Redlining’ Legislation
An article from CQ Almanac 1975
Document Outline
Other Provisions
Provisions
Senate Committee Action
Senate Floor Action
House Committee Action
House Floor Action
Conference Action
Final Action
Congress Dec. 18 gave final approval to legislation (S 1281) that would give
city residents new tools to discourage mortgage lenders from discriminating
arbitrarily against their neighborhoods. The bill responded to charges that
lenders were “redlining” certain city neighborhoods by refusing to make
mortgage loans there regardless of the credit-worthiness of the potential
borrower.
As cleared, the bill would require mortgage lenders in metropolitan areas to
disclose the amount of mortgage money they lend within each city tract area
used by the Census Bureau for statistical purposes. If census tract disclosure
 were not feasible, then lenders could disclose their information by postal
zip code areas, which generally were larger and less apt to conform to
neighborhood boundaries.
The theory behind the bill was that many city residents would not deposit their
savings in institutions found to curtail mortgage lending in their
neighborhoods. Supporters of the legislation argued that redlining was one
significant cause of urban decay.
“…Mortgage disinvestment in urban neighborhoods is a serious problem that
requires a remedy. Disclosure  is the least painful remedy I am aware of,”
said Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Chairman William Proxmire (D
Wis.). “It does not require that a lender favor certain areas or depart from
sound lending criteria; only that the depositors and the community be
informed of the facts.”
Lenders denied that redlining existed. They and Republican opponents of the
bill contended that the measure would increase paperwork and mortgage
lending costs, place undue emphasis on lending activity as a cause of urban
decline and create irresponsible pressure to make unsound loans. They also
pointed out that the disclosed information would be misleading without a
corresponding indication of mortgage loan demand from city neighborhoods.
Republican-led attempts to turn the bill into a three-year demonstration study
in selected cities failed by one vote in the Senate on Sept. 4 and two votes in
the House on Oct. 31. The redlining provisions of both the House and Senate
versions were almost identical so they posed little problem for House-Senate
conferees.
Other Provisions
Conferees compromised on unrelated House-approved provisions not included in the Senate version. They
extended the authority of federal bank regulatory agencies to set ceilings on interest paid on savings accounts by
banks, savings and loan associations and other institutions through March 1, 1977. The Senate approved a
comprehensive financial institutions bill (S 1267) on Dec. 11 that would extend this authority, exercised under an
agency rule known as Regulation Q, for five and a half years. But the House had no plans to act on a
 
7/2/09 3:35 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal75-1214669&type=hitlist&num=1
agency rule known as Regulation Q, for five and a half years. But the House had no plans to act on a
comprehensive bill before regulation Q authority expired on Dec. 31. (S 1267, chapter on Economic Policy)
Regulatory agencies had used Regulation Q to give savings and loans a competitive edge over commercial banks
in their efforts to attract savings deposits. A House move to preserve that edge by law under S 1281 was basically
successful. The final version of the bill would bar any change in the existing use of Regulation Q to favor savings
and loans without congressional approval.
At one point, House sponsors also tried to use the bill as a vehicle for a proposal to legalize national use of
checking-type accounts paying interest called “negotiable order of withdrawal (NOW)” accounts. The House
defeated this proposal on the floor Oct. 31.
Administration officials had questioned whether mortgage lending disclosure  was necessary, but a House aide
did not think the President would veto a bill aimed at discouraging discrimination. The administration also favored an
extension of Regulation Q authority after Dec. 31.
Provisions
As signed into law, S 1281 (PL 94 - 200 ):
Mortgage Loan Disclosure
Required lending institutions within standard metropolitan statistical areas to disclose the number and total dollar amount
of mortgage loans they made each fiscal year within tract areas used by the Census Bureau for statistical purposes;
required disclosure  by zip code area if the Federal Reserve Board determined that disclosure  by census tract
was not feasible.
Applied the disclosure  requirements to loans made beginning in fiscal 1975 or fiscal 1976, depending on the date
of enactment of the bill.
Required lenders also to disclose the number and amount of mortgage loans they made that were federally insured or
used to purchase property that the buyer did not intend to use as a residence; required lenders to disclose the number
and amount of home improvement loans they made in each urban area.
Required lenders to keep the disclosed information available for inspection and copying for at least five years at an
institution's home office and at least one branch office (if it had branch offices).
Required state-chartered institutions to comply with similar state disclosure  laws instead of federal law if the state
requirements were stricter than or not inconsistent with federal law.
Required the Federal Home Loan Bank Board to develop ways to facilitate disclosure  by census tract areas.
Required the Federal Reserve Board to conduct a three-year study of whether the disclosure  requirements should
apply to lending institutions outside metropolitan areas.
Exempted lending institutions with total assets of $10-million or less from the disclosure  requirements.
Set the effective date of the requirements as six months after enactment.
Terminated authority to require disclosure  four years after the effective date.
Stipulated that the bill should not encourage unsound lending practices or the allocation of credit.
Regulation Q
Extended the authority of federal regulatory agencies to set ceilings on the rate of interest banks, savings and loans and
other lending institutions could pay on savings accounts through March 1, 1977.
Barred the agencies from reducing the differential between the interest ceiling for banks and the ceiling for savings and
loans before March 1, 1977, unless both the House and Senate approved the reduction by concurrent resolution.
In any event, barred the agencies from setting the ceiling on interest paid by banks any higher than the ceiling on
interest paid by savings and loans.
Senate Committee Action
Hoping to encourage reinvestment in older urban neighborhoods, the Senate Banking, House and Urban Affairs
Committee June 6 formally reported legislation (S 1281—S Rept 94 –187) that would help city residents
discover whether mortgage lenders were discriminating against their communities. Four committee members,
7/2/09 3:35 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal75-1214669&type=hitlist&num=1
discover whether mortgage lenders were discriminating against their communities. Four committee members,
however, argued that the bill might create more problems than it would solve.
S 1281 would rely on a disclosure  approach. It would require lending institutions with offices in urban areas to
make public the amount of mortgage money they had made available in each city tract area used by the Census
Bureau for statistical purposes. The lenders also would have to disclose the number and value of loans made to
absentee owners. This provision was designed to help trace the activity of real estate speculators in inner-city
neighborhoods.
Before it approved the bill May 22, the committee dropped provisions of the bill as introduced that would have
required lenders to disclose the amount of savings deposits taken in from each area as well. The administration
argued that this requirement would be too burdensome. The committee also decided to exempt lenders located in
rural areas from the disclosure  requirements.
Committee Views
The committee majority argued that S 1281 would rely on a “mild remedy that will have the effect of encouraging
institutions to become more community-minded.” It refuted the objections raised by lenders.
Causes of Urban Decay
At the outset, the committee made it clear that it did not believe that redlining was the only important cause of
neighborhood decay. “But to the extent that ‘redlining’ does contribute to urban decline,” the report continued, “the
committee believes that disclosure  is an appropriate remedy.”
Fear of Unsound Loans
The committee also dismissed lenders' fears that pressure from community groups displeased with disclosed
information would force banks and savings and loan associations to make risky loans or allocate a portion of their
loans to older neighborhoods.
“The committee emphasizes that nothing in S 1281 requires lenders to loan in particular ratios, nor does the
legislation require lenders to make unsound loans,” the report pointed out. “Obviously the lending situation varies
substantially between communities, and there is no single percentage appropriate for all communities.”
While stressing that the bill would not require lenders to make loans in any particular neighborhoods, the committee
maintained that lending institutions did have an obligation to satisfy the credit needs of their localities. Under the 
disclosure  approach, the committee said, consumers would have the information needed to decide whether their
local institutions were meeting that obligation.
Credit Allocation
Disputing another argument raised by the lending industry, the committee denied that disclosure  would heighten
demands for actual allocation of credit to city neighborhoods. Disclosure  would “have the effect of defusing
demands for explicit credit allocation” and reduce the need for any stronger steps, the committee maintained. By
getting the facts out, the committee added, disclosure  would dispel the tensions caused when lenders were
accused unfairly of redlining.
Cost
The committee also maintained that the costs of disclosure  would not be burdensome. Citing a study by the
American Bankers Association, the committee put the cost of reporting mortgage loans by census tract area made
in the last two years at $2.14-million, or an average of $389 per bank. After the first year, the committee said it
would cost each bank an average of $180 to comply with the bill.
Objections
In a 15-page set of additional views, Democrat Robert Morgan (N.C.) and Republicans John G. Tower (Texas), Jake
Garn (Utah) and Jesse A. Helms (N.C.) argued that Congress should give the issue more study “before embarking on
ill-considered, costly permanent legislation.” The committee had rejected a proposal to study redlining problems on
May 22.
Insisting that the bill was “based on the theory that the primary cause of neighborhood decline is…redlining,” the
senators maintained that the committee had failed to explore the other complex causes of urban decay during
“shallow” and “one-sided” hearings.
“Pumping all the mortgage money in the world into a neighborhood will not create the amenities of the
neighborhood or the quality of the city service which so greatly influences its desirability,” they argued. “It cannot
cause an improvement in schools, increase safety, give more efficient public transportation, or upgrade any other
city service.”
Effects on Lenders
Raising other arguments used by lenders, the four senators also maintained that S 1281 might weaken the financial
7/2/09 3:35 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal75-1214669&type=hitlist&num=1
Raising other arguments used by lenders, the four senators also maintained that S 1281 might weaken the financial
stability of some institutions, fan racial tensions and eventually lead to a credit allocation system.
“…The action of irresponsible groups could cause withdrawals or savers' ‘runs’ on the financial institutions if the
data disclosed did not happen to measure up to some arbitrary loan volume standard established by that group,”
they contended. “This could threaten the very existence of many financial institutions.”
Provisions of the bill requiring lenders to disclose the volume of conventional mortgage loans and the volume of
loans insured by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) in each neighborhood were “an invitation to chaos” and
possibly racial conflict, the four senators added. They suggested that the requirement would put lenders in the
middle of a struggle between blacks who wanted FHA loans and whites who thought FHA loans signaled the entry
of poor or black families into their neighborhoods.
Costs
Using the same American Bankers Association data cited by the committee majority, the four senators also argued
that the legislation would be costly because of the difficulty of coding addresses into census tract designations.
Lending institutions would need computer services to help them do the coding, they pointed out, and computers
could not be used for coding in many cases. Computer coding also had been unreliable, they added.
“We are concerned that if this bill goes forward in its present form, it will prove costly to the future homebuyer,” the
senators concluded. “The thrift institutions are in an earnings squeeze and they will have to pass the costs on to the
consumer who can ill-afford additional inflationary increases.”
Senate Floor Action
The Senate Sept. 4 passed S 1281 by a 45-37 vote after narrowly rejecting a key Republican-backed substitute
that would have weakened the bill. It had initially debated the bill July 26, before the August recess. (Vote 382, p.
56-S)
Debate, conducted with only a handful of senators on the floor, focused on the key substitute rejected by the
Senate.
Garn Substitute
The substitute, sponsored by Jake Garn (R Utah), would have limited the legislation to a three-year demonstration
survey of mortgage lending practices in 27 cities selected by the Federal Reserve Board. As passed, the bill would
apply to 265 metropolitan areas.
While conceding that redlining was a problem in some cities, Garn argued that “there is no need to solve a problem
with a 105-millimeter howitzer when a flyswatter will do.” He attacked S 1281 as another example of how the
federal government imposed national regulations without listening to the views of mayors and other local officials.
“Redlining does exist,” Garn, former mayor of Salt Lake City, concluded, “but to impose this on them [the mayors]
and tell them it will solve their problems is a bunch of baloney. Any mayor or councilman in the country will tell you
a different story—that other problems need to be solved.”
Garn also repeated arguments he had made earlier, contending that a demonstration survey would show whether 
disclosure  was a workable or desirable approach. He also insisted that the bill was a first step to telling lenders
that they must allocate credit to certain neighborhoods.
Banking Committee Chairman William Proxmire (D Wis.) countered that the substitute would gut the bill by limiting the
disclosure  requirement to so few cities. He maintained that the record showed that redlining existed in many
more cities than those likely to be surveyed.
Proxmire also pointed out that the Banking Committee already had narrowed the bill to limit disclosure  to
metropolitan areas. “I do hope that we will not go so far as to gut the bill by subtracting 93 per cent of it and leaving
a pitiful little 7 per cent, letting this bill limp into the House as just a shadow…of the way it started out,” he said.
The survey also would be a waste of money, Proxmire added, because lenders in about 27 cities would have to
disclose the same information under state laws in California, Illinois and Massachusetts even if S 1281 were not
approved.
Before the Senate rejected the substitute by a 40–41 vote, Garn did agree to make some modifications in his
proposal. The modifications were based on amendments offered by Robert Taft Jr. (R Ohio). The key change
increased the number of cities that would have been covered by the survey to 27 from 20.
Of the 40 senators voting for the substitute, 26 were Republicans and 12 were southern Democrats. But nine
Republicans joined 32 Democrats to oppose the substitute. (Vote 381, p. 56-S)
Other Amendments
While defeating the Garn substitute, the Senate did adopt an amendment by Richard (Dick) Stone (D Fla.) requiring 
7/2/09 3:35 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal75-1214669&type=hitlist&num=1
disclosure  by zip code areas instead of by tract areas used by the Census Bureau for statistical purposes. The
committee version would have required use of census tract areas.
Stone argued that it would be difficult and costly for lenders to use census tract areas. Proxmire contended that tract
areas would be more useful because they were smaller and more apt to conform to neighborhood boundaries.
But in an unsuccessful effort to head off the Stone amendment, Proxmire proposed a compromise that would have
allowed use of zip codes in suburban areas and cities of less than 350,000 population. The Senate rejected the
compromise, opposed by Stone, by a 36–49 vote. It then adopted the Stone amendment by voice vote. (Vote 380,
p. 56-S)
The Senate also adopted two other non-controversial amendments by voice vote. The first, proposed by Taft, would
require lenders to disclose the amount of home improvement loans made within zip code areas as well as mortgage
loans. The second, offered by J. Bennett Johnston Jr. (D La.), would provide that the bill would expire within three
years of its enactment. The Senate rejected by voice vote an amendment by Robert Dole (R Kan.) that would have
allowed governors who certified that redlining was not a problem to exempt their states from the act's requirements.
House Committee Action
The House Banking, Currency and Housing Committee Oct. 10 reported its version of the redlining proposal (HR
10024—H Rept 94 –561). The bill also contained other major provisions permitting the nationwide use of
“negotiable order of withdrawal” (NOW) accounts, which in effect let customers write a certain number of checks on
savings-type accounts. Another key provision guaranteed that savings and loans could pay higher interest on
passbook accounts than commercial banks through the end of 1977.
Major Provisions
Redlining Disclosure
The redlining provisions were similar to those in the Senate bill but were to be effective for four rather than three
years.
HR 10024 would require lenders with home offices in metropolitan areas to disclose the number and total value of
mortgage loans they had made within each tract area used by the Census Bureau for statistical purposes. The
Federal Reserve could allow institutions to report the information by zip code area if census tract disclosure
would involve excessive costs. Institutions with assets of $25-million or less would have an extra year to comply
with the requirements.
Another provision of the bill would require the Department of Housing and Urban Development to collect the
disclosed information and furnish it to public officials and congressional committees interested in patterns of
mortgage investment.
NOW Accounts
The bill would repeal a provision of a 1973 law (PL 93-100) that limited use of NOW accounts to financial
institutions in Massachusetts and New Hampshire, where state-chartered institutions pioneered the idea. The 1973
law allowed institutions in these states to experiment with NOW accounts under federal supervision. (1973 Almanac
p. 233)
The committee stipulated that all types of institutions should offer the accounts at the same interest rate, expected
to be 5 per cent. The Federal Reserve Board also would set requirements for reserves to be held against the
accounts.
The administration had recommended national use of NOW accounts. The Senate committee bill also would lift the
ban on use of these accounts.
Regulation Q
Pending the outcome of a special study, the committee also proposed a two-year extension of the authority of
federal bank regulatory agencies to set ceilings on interest rates paid by banks, savings and loans and other
institutions on savings accounts. The authority, called Regulation Q, had been extended through Dec. 31, 1975, by
a 1974 law (PL 93-495). (1974 Almanac p. 164)
Congress created the Regulation Q authority in 1966 to end interest-rate wars between commercial banks and
savings and loans. Regulatory agencies have used the authority to help savings and loans attract funds, which
provide the bulk of financing available for home purchases. In 1975, the interest ceilings allowed savings and loans
to pay interest of up to 5¼ per cent on passbook accounts, while limiting interest on accounts at banks to 5 per
cent.
In a partial victory for savings and loans, the committee also directed regulatory agencies to keep the differential
between interest paid by banks and savings and loans at no less than 1/4 per cent through 1977. Savings and loan
groups had pushed for a 1/2 per cent differential.
7/2/09 3:35 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal75-1214669&type=hitlist&num=1
If the agencies found that the required differential was putting some institutions at a competitive disadvantage, they
could eliminate or reduce it in some local areas. But either the House or Senate Banking Committee could
disapprove these actions within 45 days.
The administration had recommended that Regulation Q be extended for five and a half years in its comprehensive
financial institutions proposal. The Senate committee went along with this recommendation, but did not mandate any
particular interest rate differential.
Electronic Banking
Other provisions of the bill would require the National Commission on Electronic Fund Transfer Systems to report to
Congress within six months of enactment on key controversies arising out of greater use of electronic banking.
Congress created the commission in 1974, but President Ford did not name its members until Oct. 6.
A number of banks and savings and loans were experimenting with the use of computer terminals in stores capable
of dispensing cash, verifying checks or transferring funds from one account to anther. Ultimately, electronic systems
could eliminate the use of checks by automatically transferring funds from a customer's account to a store's account
to cover purchases.
But controversies over electronic banking had led to extensive litigation at the state and federal levels. A key legal
question was whether computer terminals should be considered branch offices of banks, subjecting them to state
restrictions on branch banking that protect smaller institutions.
Smaller banks, which could be hurt by the financial ability of big banks to invest in expensive electronic systems,
had hoped the committee would impose a moratorium on experiments with electronic banking. The committee
decided not to do so.
Electronic banking also raised questions about how to protect the privacy of computer accounts, what the antitrust
implications were if institutions shared electronic systems, and whether electronic banking would give consumers
detailed records of purchases needed to track down computer error. The commission was set up to look into these
and other questions.
Committee Views
NOW Accounts
Judging NOW accounts a success in New England states, the committee concluded that there was no need to wait
for the conclusion of the FINE study to allow their national use. “…The consumer should no longer be asked to
await the fruits of comprehensive financial reform,” the report said, “and [the committee] recommends the
authorization of NOW accounts for all financial institutions desiring to respond to obvious consumer demand.”
But Albert W. Johnson (Pa.), ranking Republican on the committee, argued that the committee should not lift the 40-
year ban on payment of interest on checking accounts without more study. He maintained that the committee did
not know how NOW accounts helped consumers, suggesting that loan costs may have increased in Massachusetts
and New Hampshire as a result of paying interest on these accounts.
“It is likely that larger banks, possessed of wider markets for investments of funds, would outbid their smaller
community bank competitors for deposits [in NOW accounts],” he added. “Hasty measures which may result in
further concentration in the banking industry should not be undertaken at this time.”
Regulation Q
The committee defended the two-year extension of Regulation Q with a mandated interest rate differential on
grounds that Congress needed to ensure the stability of savings and loans while it considered far-reaching and
potentially disrupting changes in the structure of financial institutions. At the same time, the committee conceded
that Regulation Q had little effect on loss of savings deposits to higher-yielding bonds, a process that dries up
sources of mortgage lending. But the committee pointed out that the principal purpose of Regulation Q was to
prevent savings outflows to banks, not to other kinds of investments.
In dissenting views, Richard Kelly (R Fla.) argued that the committee should not set important policies on interest
rate differentials, or NOW accounts, without the results of the FINE study.
“It is fair neither to the consumers nor to the bankers for us to legislate in a vacuum. Changes must be considered
against the complex background of our financial institutions and their role in the economy, an elaborate tapestry of
which Regulation Q, the interest rate differential and NOW accounts are only one thread,” he insisted. “…I do not
think it is wise for the committee to indulge in the kind of half-hearted nibbling and partial attempts indicated by its
action in reporting this bill to the House.”
Redlining Disclosure
While recognizing that the refusal to make mortgage loans in certain neighborhoods was only one cause of urban
decay, the committee contended that disclosure  of mortgage lending data was a “vital and essential step” to
help reverse and prevent neighborhood decline.
“Your committee believes disclosure  will identify the beginning stages of redlining, the point at which a
7/2/09 3:35 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal75-1214669&type=hitlist&num=1
“Your committee believes disclosure  will identify the beginning stages of redlining, the point at which a
neighborhood can be saved,” the report said. Disclosure  would give neighborhood residents, public officials and
lenders a chance to plan ways to save a neighborhood before it was too late, the committee argued.
The committee majority also maintained that lenders could comply with the disclosure  requirements at minimal
cost. It added that state or local disclosure  laws made federal legislation essential so that federally and state-
chartered institutions would be treated uniformly.
Eight Republicans on the committee urged deletion of the redlining disclosure  provisions. They argued that the
bill would:
Create more unnecessary and unproductive paperwork for lenders.
Concentrate attention on mortgage lending practices while ignoring the real causes of neighborhood decay, such as
reductions in municipal services.
Undermine the fundamental concept of a national economy by implicitly fostering the belief that lenders should invest
savings deposits only in neighborhoods making the deposits.
“We are left, therefore,” the Republicans concluded, “with a title [of the bill] which provides for the collection of data
in the hope that it will provide, at the expense of the accused institutions, evidence to substantiate the charges
which have been leveled against them.”
While in favor of redlining disclosure , Millicent Fenwick (R N.J.) suggested that small lending institutions should
be exempt from the bill's requirements.
House Floor Action
The House passed the bill by a 177-147 vote Oct. 31 after opponents knocked out the NOW accounts provisions
and nearly succeeded in gutting and redlining sections of the measure. Banking interests had lobbied heavily
against the NOW accounts provisions. (Vote 488, p. 150-H)
NOW Accounts Killed
Arguing that the House should not act too hastily on an issue with broad implications for the nation's banking
system, Robert G. Stephens Jr. (D Ga.) proposed the amendment to delete the NOW account provisions. Stephens
was considered the most influential southern Democrat on banking matters.
“I personally do not see how in good conscience we can proceed to act on the issue of NOW accounts in isolation
from other proposals to create a more competitive financial system,” Stephens argued.
Until the Banking Committee completed its massive study, Stephens complained, the House lacked the answers to
many questions. Among other things, he questioned whether anyone knew whether NOW accounts would reduce
funds available for housing loans, which banks usually drew from more stable savings account deposits.
Stephens also argued that the House did not know how financial institutions would cope with the cost of paying
interest on NOW accounts. Would they absorb the costs, require service charges on NOW accounts, or pass costs
on to their loan customers, he asked.
Several House members from rural districts also questioned whether NOW accounts would help consumers if they
just had to pay more for service charges or for interest on loans.
“It seems a little illusory to pay interest on a checking account, on the one hand,” argued Frank E. Evans (D Colo.),
“and take money, part of it anyway, back with the other hand….”
But Fernand J. St Germain (D R.I.), chairman of the Banking subcommittee that drafted the bill, suggested that
opponents had the industry's, not the consumer's, interest at heart. “This legislation…is not a product of the
requests of trade associations; it is a product stemming from the needs of the people of this nation…,” he pointed
out.
St Germain, joined by conservative John H. Rousselot (Calif.), ranking Republican on the subcommittee, argued that
Congress did not need to wait for any studies to act because NOW accounts had been used without dire
consequences to the banking systems in Massachusetts and New Hampshire. Why should Congress deny
consumers in other states the chance to use accounts that had proven extremely popular in those two states, he
asked.
“What we are saying here is that we are going to allow the working man, who does not have the sophistication to
invest in money market funds or in municipal bond funds, to obtain a little interest on his savings account and yet be
able to write checks on it,” St Germain concluded. “It is about time that we vote for the people rather than for the
financial institutions.”
But Stephens' position prevailed on a 218-134 vote. Stephens won the support of 66 of 75 voting southern
7/2/09 3:35 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal75-1214669&type=hitlist&num=1
But Stephens' position prevailed on a 218-134 vote. Stephens won the support of 66 of 75 voting southern
Democrats and 93 of 115 voting Republicans. Fifty-nine northern Democrats also voted to kill the NOW account
provisions. (Vote 485, p. 150-H)
Redlining Disclosure
While supporting NOW accounts, Rousselot led the drive to delete the redlining disclosure  provisions of the bill.
He maintained that the disclosure  requirements would be expensive and do little to prevent the decline of urban
neighborhoods. “Bucketsful of statistics” would neither eliminate discrimination in mortgage lending nor help upgrade
the city services needed to maintain a healthy neighborhood, he contended.
Other opponents regarded the disclosure  requirements as a first step toward credit allocation, but St Germain
pointed out that the bill specifically stated that lenders were not expected to approve any unwise loans. The
disclosed information, he argued, merely would give city residents the facts needed to decide whether they wanted
to put their savings in an institution that discriminated against their neighborhoods.
But Garry Brown (R Mich.) questioned how the bill would provide any evidence of discrimination because information
about loan demand from a particular neighborhood would not be disclosed. “Under this title [of the bill] there could
be full reporting of mortgages made, and maybe an institution would report none in a particular neighborhood,” he
pointed out. “That on its face would appear to be a bad and discriminatory practice. However, if there had been no
requests for credit from that particular…area, the assumption or conclusion would be totally false.”
Addressing this question, Andy Jacobs Jr. (D Ind.) offered an amendment that would have required lenders to
disclose loan requests submitted in writing. It was rejected, however, by a 25–32 standing vote.
Rousselot's amendment to delete the redlining provisions also was rejected by a 152–191 vote. But a second
amendment to limit the disclosure  to lenders in 20 cities selected for a three-year study failed by a narrow
165–167 vote. The amendment, sponsored by Brown, won the support of 13 Republicans and 16 Democrats who
had opposed Rousselot's. (Votes 486, 487, p. 150-H)
The House did adopt one substantive amendment affecting the redlining provisions. It would exempt lending
institutions with assets of $10-million or less from the disclosure  requirements. The amendment, proposed by
Millicent Fenwick (R N.J.), was adopted by voice vote. A related amendment to exempt institutions holding less than
$500,-000 in mortgage loans was defeated by voice vote. St Germain called the second amendment redundant.
Recommittal, Passage
Before passing the bill, the House also rejected a motion by Burt L. Talcott (R Calif.) to recommit the measure to the
Banking Committee with instructions to delete the provisions that would guarantee that savings and loans could pay
higher interest than banks on savings accounts. The motion was rejected by voice vote.
The House then passed the Senate-numbered redlining disclosure  bill (S 1281) after amending it to contain the
provisions of HR 10024, paving the way for a House-Senate conference.
Conference Action
House-Senate conferees filed a report (H Rept 94 –726, S Rept 94 –553) on Dec. 12. Senate conferees
John G. Tower (R Texas) and Jake Garn (R Utah) and House conferees Albert W. Johnson (R Pa.) and John H.
Rousselot (R Calif.) did not sign the report. All four Republicans had supported an unsuccessful move to weaken the
redlining provisions
Redlining Disclosure
There were few major differences between the redlining provisions of the House and Senate versions.
Conferees opted for the disclosure  method approved by the House that would require disclosure  by
census tract area if the Federal Reserve Board found it feasible. Otherwise institutions would disclose their lending
activity by zip code areas. The Senate-passed bill provided for zip code disclosure , but Senate sponsors had
supported the census tract approach originally.
Again following House provisions, conferees agreed to keep the disclosure  requirements in effect for four
years. The Senate approved a three-year bill.
Another House-passed provision accepted by conferees exempted lending institutions with assets of $10-million or
less from the disclosure requirements. The Senate version did not contain this exemption.
The only real dispute between conferees centered on how the bill should relate to state redlining laws. The Senate
version would have required federally chartered institutions to comply with state laws if they were stricter than the
bill. House conferees objected to subjecting federally chartered institutions to state regulation, arguing that it would
undermine the dual federal-state banking system. The House position prevailed in conference, but Senate conferees
maintained that this decision should not be regarded as a precedent for future consumer finance laws.
7/2/09 3:35 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 9 of 9http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal75-1214669&type=hitlist&num=1
Senate conferees also approved House language, implicit in the Senate version, that stated that the bill should not
encourage unsound lending practices or allocation of credit.
Regulation Q
Conferees reached a compromise on the House-passed provisions, not included in the Senate bill, extending
Regulation Q authority. The compromise extended Regulation Q authority through March 1, 1977, instead of Dec.
31, 1977, the expiration date set by the House.
Conferees also modified House provisions that would have required federal regulatory agencies to set the maximum
interest rate on savings accounts at savings and loans at least 1/4 per cent higher than the maximum rate on
savings accounts at commercial banks. Instead, the bill would bar any reduction in the existing 1/4 per cent interest
rate differential favoring savings and loans unless both houses of Congress approved the reduction. In any event,
the maximum interest rate for banks could not exceed the maximum rate for savings and loans.
Although it did not mandate any required differential between these rates, the compromise, in effect, made it
politically difficult to eliminate the competitive edge existing use of Regulation Q gave savings and loans.
Final Action
The Senate adopted the conference report by voice vote and without debate on Dec. 15.
The House adopted the conference report by voice vote on Dec. 18.
Document Citation
"Congress Clears ‘Redlining’ Legislation." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal75-1214669. Originally
published in CQ Almanac 1975 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1976). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal75-
1214669 (accessed July 2, 2009).
Document ID: cqal75-1214669
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal75-1214669
© 1976, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
