2/8/10 1:57 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…ion=print&time=1265655392929&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
Ford Signs Compromise Housing Legislation
An article from CQ Almanac 1975
Document Outline
Move to New Bill
Legislative History
Housing Industry Problems
Final Provisions
House Action—HR 4485
House Action—HR 5398
Senate Action
Veto
Veto Sustained
Features
Deciding against any renewed fight for a broader program, Congress June 27 sent the President an emergency housing bill (HR
5398) much like one he had proposed June 24 after vetoing a more extensive housing aid measure (HR 4485) backed by the
Democratic leadership. Rushing to complete action before the July 4 recess, Congress cleared the bill just two days after the
House was unable to override the veto.
President Ford signed the bill (PL 94 - 50) July 2, praising Congress for its cooperation. He said the administration was
“committed to a prompt recovery of the housing industry and getting construction workers back on the job.”
Democrats had insisted that the federal government needed to stimulate the housing industry to help bring the country out of the
recession. The unemployment rate in the construction industry stood at almost 22 per cent in May, while new housing starts
remained at their lowest levels in 28 years.
The President, encouraged by May figures showing an increase in the rate of housing starts, maintained that the health of the
housing industry was improving. But he agreed that some new assistance would help speed its recovery.
Major provisions of the new bill would allow, but not require, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to buy up
another $10-billion in mortgages carrying 7.5 per cent interest rates under a 1974 mortgage assistance program. The purchases
encourage lenders to make mortgage money available at below-market interest rates. The President had asked for additional
mortgage purchase authority of $7.75-billion. (1974 act, 1974 Almanac p. 364)
The second major section of the bill would allow HUD to make loans of up to $250 a month for two years to jobless homeowners
unable to meet mortgage payments. Alternately, HUD could insure lenders against losses if they made the same kind of
assistance available directly to unemployed homeowners facing foreclosure.
The new bill eliminated two major subsidy programs included in HR 4485. These programs would have offered middle-income
homebuyers cash grants of $1,000 for housing down payment costs or temporary subsidies reducing mortgage interest rates to 6
per cent.
Move to New Bill
Chief sponsors of the vetoed bill speeded HR 5398 through Congress after the House sustained the veto. While not satisfied with
the President's proposal, they felt it was important to get some legislation aiding the housing industry on the books as soon as
possible.
“I think we're tired of working on this housing legislation,” remarked an aide to William Proxmire (D Wis.), chairman of the Senate
Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee.
Several hours after the House sustained the veto June 25, Proxmire proposed the new bill as a substitute for a related House-
passed measure (HR 5398). Earlier in the afternoon, House Banking, Currency and Housing Committee Chairman Henry S. Reuss
(D Wis.) had introduced another compromise proposal (HR 8196), which was set aside.
Proxmire told the Senate he had decided to offer the compromise in order to get a new bill enacted quickly. “We could come
back and fight for another program, and try again to get it passed and to override the veto,” he noted, “but that would not help
2/8/10 1:57 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…ion=print&time=1265655392929&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
back and fight for another program, and try again to get it passed and to override the veto,” he noted, “but that would not help
homebuyers or builders meanwhile….”
In the House, Reuss pointed out that the compromise was at least “half a loaf.” He also said he had been assured by Housing
and Urban Development Secretary Carla A. Hills that the President would sign the compromise after the House upheld the veto.
Legislative History
The Senate adopted Proxmire's amendments to HR 5398 by voice vote on June 25, and then passed the bill the following day
after little debate. The vote was 94-0. (Vote 255, p. 38-S)
The House agreed to Proxmire's amendments later June 26 by voice vote after making two changes in the measure.
A controversial change killed Senate-passed provisions limiting the fees or “points” lenders could charge to “originate” a 7.5 per
cent mortgage eligible for purchase by HUD under the 1974 program. The Senate provisions would have limited loan origination
fees charged buyers or sellers to 1 per cent of the amount of the loan and limited other fees charged under the program to
another 1 per cent. The administration wanted these provisions dropped.
The second change, which also had been included in the final version of HR 4485, delayed until Jan. 1, 1976, the effective date
of requirements under a 1973 flood insurance act that would make it difficult for owners to sell their homes in flood-prone areas
that had not adopted HUD land use standards.
Proxmire initially refused to give up the limit on fees. But he agreed to drop his objections June 27 after HUD officials assured
him that all fees under the mortgage purchase program would be limited to 4 per cent of the loan, or ½ per cent less than the
existing maximum. Proxmire said the limit would put the effective interest rate on mortgages eligible for purchase at 7.92 per
cent, or roughly 1 per cent below market rates.
The Senate then cleared the bill June 27 by agreeing to the House-passed changes by voice vote.
Housing Industry Problems
The housing industry suffered a severe slump in 1974, due in large part to tight mortgage credit and high mortgage interest rates.
Housing starts in 1974 fell to 1.3 million units, down a third from 1973, and housing experts predicted no substantial improvement
until at least mid-1975. Unemployment in the construction industry stood at 15 percent in January, almost twice the national rate.
While the mortgage credit crunch was easing by early 1975, the deepening recession and resulting cutbacks in consumer
spending produced new problems for homeowners and for the housing industry.
A major problem for many builders when consumers did without major purchases was the resulting inventory of unsold housing.
The financial strain of paying off construction loans without the income from sold units had forced many builders into bankruptcy.
There were more than 400,000 units of unsold new single-family homes in November 1974.
Rising unemployment also meant that many homeowners were having trouble meeting their monthly mortgage payments, the
largest financial obligations of many unemployed individuals. Rep. Thomas L. Ashley (D Ohio) estimated that as many as 500,000
families could be facing loss of their homes by mid-1975 because of mortgage default.
The latest estimates available from the Federal Home Loan Bank Board indicated that 103,956 properties had been foreclosed
during the first nine months of 1974, basically no change from the same period in 1973. A bank board staff member suggested,
however, that an increase in foreclosures would show up when figures for the fourth quarter of 1974 were available.
Final Provisions
As signed by the President, HR 5398:
Mortgage Aid to Jobless
Authorized HUD to make loans of up to $250 a month to help cover payment of mortgage loan principal, interest, taxes and mortgage
or hazard insurance; limited eligibility for the loans to homeowners who had “incurred a substantial reduction in income as the result of
involuntary unemployment or underemployment due to adverse economic conditions” and who were “financially unable to make the full
mortgage payment.”
Authorized HUD to make loans to an individual homeowner for up to 12 months; allowed HUD to extend the loan period for an
additional year if necessary; required those assisted to report any increase in income affecting their ability to meet mortgage payments.
Barred HUD from approving loans unless 1) the lender had notified the homeowner of his intention to foreclose, 2) the lender had
notified HUD in writing that foreclosure was probable (HUD could waive this requirement), 3) the homeowner had missed mortgage
payments for at least three months, 4) the homeowner had a “reasonable prospect” of regaining the income needed to resume full
payment of the mortgage and 5) the mortgaged property was the principal residence of the homeowner.
Required homeowners to repay the amount of the loans under terms and conditions set by HUD at interest rates no higher than those
on mortgages insured by the Federal Housing Administration; allowed HUD to defer any repayment until  one year or longer after the
2/8/10 1:57 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…ion=print&time=1265655392929&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
on mortgages insured by the Federal Housing Administration; allowed HUD to defer any repayment until  one year or longer after the
date of the last loan payment; required HUD to obtain adequate security for repayment of loans, which could include liens (claims) on
the mortgaged property.
Authorized $500-million, without fiscal year limitation, for the program; barred HUD from making any new loan commitments after June
30, 1976.
Under the same eligibility and repayment requirements, authorized HUD to insure mortgage lenders against losses if they provided
similar loan assistance to jobless homeowners directly; stipulated that the HUD insurance would cover no more than 90 per cent of the
loss on any individual loan.
Allowed HUD to charge lenders premiums for the insurance of no more than 0.5 per cent of the outstanding principal of such loans.
Limited the total value of insured loans to $1.5-billion; barred new commitments under the insurance program after June 30, 1976.
Required HUD and federal agencies supervising financial institutions to take steps for one year after enactment to encourage lenders
to forbear (hold off) in residential mortgage loan foreclosures; required the agencies to ask lenders to notify HUD, the supervisory
agency and the homeowner at least 30 days before beginning foreclosure proceedings.
Required HUD, within 60 days of enactment and at 60-day intervals thereafter until  June 30, 1976, to report to Congress on
foreclosure and mortgage delinquency rates and actions being taken to encourage forbearance.
Authorized the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to make loan advances to lenders participating in programs for jobless
homeowners.
Mortgage Credit Assistance
Extended a 1974 act (PL 93-449) authorizing HUD to buy up mortgage loans at below-market interest rates to July 1, 1976, from Oct.
18, 1975; gave HUD authority to purchase an additional $10-billion in mortgage loans under the 1974 program. (The 1974 act limited
the total value of mortgage purchases to $7.75-billion.)
Limited the maximum interest rate on mortgages eligible for purchase by HUD to 7.5 per cent.
Made mortgages on multi-family residences and condominiums, as well as those on one- to four-family homes, eligible for purchase
under the 1974 act.
Miscellaneous
Extended an urban rehabilitation loan program (Section 312) through Aug. 22, 1976; authorized $100-million for the program in fiscal
1976.
Extended to Jan. 1, 1976, from July 1, 1975, the effective date of provisions of a 1973 flood insurance act (PL 93-234) barring lenders
from making mortgage loans on existing housing in areas that had not adopted HUD land use standards for flood-prone areas.
House Action—HR 4485
Committee Hearings
On Feb. 6, the House Banking, Currency and Housing Committee's Subcommittee on Housing opened hearings on a number of
emergency housing proposals.
While agreed that emergency steps were needed to help the depressed housing industry, witnesses and subcommittee members
reached no early consensus on what they should be—or how much they could cost.
Fernand J. St Germain (D R.I.) summed up the common goal: “We all have the same concern. We all want to get the homebuilding
industry off center.” But the proposed solutions ranged from a large-scale new subsidy program for homeowners to a reworking
of an emergency mortgage credit program enacted in 1974 (PL 93-449). (1974 Almanac p. 364)
The House Democratic leadership had requested action on emergency housing proposals in its Jan. 13 economic plan. The
subcommittee was assigned the task of translating these somewhat vague proposals into concrete legislation.
Major Proposals
The major housing proposals introduced in the 94th Congress emphasized slightly different objectives, ranging from stimulation of
new construction to reduction of unsold housing inventory to protection of homeowners who had lost their jobs.
Reuss Proposal
A proposal (HR 29) sponsored by the new chairman of the Banking, Currency and Housing Committee, Henry S. Reuss (D Wis.),
would set up a mortgage interest rate subsidy program for middle-income homeowners as a means of stimulating new
construction. The bill would authorize the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to subsidize the difference
between the actual interest rate and a 6 per cent rate—about a 3 per cent subsidy in the current market.
2/8/10 1:57 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…ion=print&time=1265655392929&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
The assistance would be available to families whose income did not exceed 120 per cent of the median income for an area for
homes having an appraised value of up to $38,000. A family could receive the payments for up to four years. The total cost of
the program could not exceed $1.3-billion.
Ashley Proposal
A second bill (HR 34), introduced by Ashley and 84 other members, would provide emergency federal assistance to homeowners
in danger of mortgage default because of unemployment or other economic setbacks. The bill would not directly stimulate new
construction.
The Ashley proposal would authorize HUD to make mortgage payments needed to avoid foreclosure; the amount of the
assistance would have to be repaid to the federal government. Assistance would be limited to families whose income had
declined by more than 20 per cent because of unemployment or other economic conditions, but who were expected to regain this
income within two years. The maximum monthly payment by HUD would be $375. Repayments and Treasury borrowing would
finance the program.
Brown Proposal
Garry Brown (Mich.), ranking Republican on the subcommittee, proposed legislation (HR 2640) which would extend and revise
the 1974 emergency mortgage credit program. “He feels that there is enough emergency-type legislation enacted,” said an aide.
“We ought to just make it work.”
HR 2640 would extend the 1974 program for another year, until October 1976, and increase the authorization level for the
program to $10-billion from $7.75-billion. The program freed private funds for mortgage lending by authorizing HUD to buy up
conventional mortgages not insured by the federal government.
Administration Position
The administration was generally opposed to homeownership subsidy programs and had not proposed any new legislation to help
the housing industry. President Ford's fiscal 1976 budget indicated that expansion of the existing emergency mortgage credit
program—which had bought up $6-billion in mortgages—would depend on future economic developments.
Other Proposals
A number of other proposals also had been introduced. The National Association of Home Builders (NAHB) backed legislation
(HR 2900) designed to move the unsold inventory of housing. HR 2900 would authorize HUD to provide a mortgage interest
subsidy of up to 1½ per cent for up to 250,000 units bought during a 90-day period after enactment. Other proposals would
impose a moratorium on foreclosures of federally subsidized housing and create a new corporation to make housing loans to
moderate-income families or refinance mortgages of homeowners faced with foreclosure.
A number of emergency housing proposals also had been introduced in the Senate, but no hearings had been scheduled.
Reaction to Proposals
The witnesses appearing before the Housing Subcommittee Feb. 6 all favored some kind of emergency assistance, but
expressed different opinions on the major proposals.
While taking no formal position on the proposed bills, NAHB President J. S. Norman Jr. indicated that the homebuilders would
favor enactment of both the Reuss and Ashley proposals. Norman also strongly endorsed HR 2900.
But David S. Cook, representing the Mortgage Bankers Association, questioned the economic impact of the Reuss proposal.
Estimating that the interest subsidy would be available to two out of every three prospective buyers, Cook suggested that this
massive stimulation of the housing industry inevitably would drive up housing prices, interest rates and, thus, the amount of the
subsidy.
“We feel that the objectives of HR 29 are good,” Cook said, “but the risks are great.” He specifically suggested that the Reuss
proposal would add to the nation's budget deficit. As an alternative, Cook recommended action first on legislation designed to
move the unsold inventory. He also found merit in the Ashley proposal.
On the other hand, Leon Weiner of the National Housing Conference, a public interest group, argued that the Reuss bill did not
go far enough. He proposed that the subsidy should reduce mortgage interest to 4 per cent or 2 per cent for lower-income
families.
Weiner's proposals prompted discussion of how much should be spent on emergency assistance.
“Put a price tag on your over-all testimony today,” Brown ordered Weiner. “Give me a figure.”
Weiner said he was not prepared with a cost estimate.
“We've got to be a little bit more realistic…,” argued Brown. “We've got to decide what we can afford to do for the least amount
of money.”
Committee Report
2/8/10 1:57 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…ion=print&time=1265655392929&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
On March 14, the Banking, Currency and Housing Committee reported HR 4485 (H Rept 94-64), three days after it had approved
the measure by a 25-11 vote. The bill, which was patterned after the Reuss proposal (HR 29), was defended by the committee
majority as an essential antirecession measure designed to stimulate the economy by reviving the housing industry and restoring
consumer confidence. Committee Republicans charged that the legislation was misdirected, inequitable and even unnecessary.
(Vote breakdown, box, following page)
Administration Opposition
The administration strongly opposed the Reuss proposal. Noting that the 1974 mortgage credit crunch had eased, James L.
Mitchell, under secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), questioned the need for an expensive subsidy program
supported by taxpayers, many of whom could not afford to buy a home themselves.
Mitchell also told the committee's Housing Subcommittee Feb. 18 that the proposal might inflate housing prices by creating new
demand. Inflationary pressures also could drive up interest rates and slow the housing industry's recovery, he added.
Subcommittee Action
The Housing Subcommittee modified the Reuss proposal and March 6 approved a compromise drafted by Thomas L. Ashley (D
Ohio). The compromise would provide two different kinds of subsidies for middle-income homebuyers.
Under the first approach, the government would subsidize the difference between the market interest rate and a 6 per cent rate
for three years. The subsidy would drop by 25 per cent in each of the next three years and end after the sixth year.
The second approach would provide a 7 per cent interest rate over the life of the mortgage loan.
The first approach was aimed at younger families expecting their incomes to increase. The second approach would provide
assistance to families with stable income. In general, families with income of up to 120 per cent of the median family income in a
particular area would be eligible for either program. The subsidies could be used to purchase houses having an appraised value
of up to $38,000 ($42,000 in high-cost areas). Only 10 per cent of the aid could subsidize purchases of the higher-cost housing.
Reflecting Ashley's conviction that new construction was the best way to aid the housing industry, the subcommittee bill would
have required HUD to use at least 75 per cent of the assistance for the purchase of new or substantially rehabilitated single-
family homes. The subcommittee allowed 25 per cent of the aid to go toward the purchase of new, unsold housing constructed
before enactment of the bill. This provision was aimed at an inventory of about 400,000 units of unsold housing that builders
contended made new construction unnecessary.
In addition to authorizing HUD to make payments directly to mortgage lenders to subsidize interest rates, the subcommittee bill
would allow the government to buy from lenders mortgage loans carrying a 7 per cent interest rate. Treasury borrowings would
cover losses if the government then resold these mortgages at a higher interest rate.
The subcommittee placed a $12-billion ceiling on the total value of mortgage loans subsidized under the bill. It estimated that the
program would cost the federal government between $500-million and $1.5-billion, depending on which of the three approaches
was used most heavily and on future interest rate levels. HUD could make no new commitments under the program after June
30, 1976.
Committee Action
The full committee approved the subcommittee bill after adopting one major change strongly opposed by Ashley. The
amendment, backed by Republicans and northern Democrats, would allow HUD to use 20 per cent of the assistance for purchase
of existing older housing. Committee members representing large metropolitan areas had argued that little new housing was built
in inner-city areas.
Ashley insisted the amendment would weaken the bill's impact on the recession. He argued that purchase of existing housing did
not stimulate the economy as much as new housing construction.
Another amendment approved by the committee would limit the total value of mortgage loans subsidized at the 6 per cent rate to
$300-million and the total value of loans subsidized at 7 per cent to $1.5-billion.
The committee rejected attempts by Republicans to weaken the bill.
Committee Views
“Traditionally, housing has led the economy out of recessionary periods,” the committee majority contended. “The current severe
slump in both the economy as a whole and the construction industry does not appear to be breaking.” Despite a growth in funds
available for mortgage lending and some slight decreases in interest rates on long-term loans, the committee concluded that
emergency assistance was needed to put the housing industry back on its feet.
The committee majority also stressed the “ripple effect” new housing construction would have on the appliance, home furnishing,
lumber and other industries. It cited Labor Department estimates that 250,000 new housing starts would generate the equivalent
of one year of work for up to 343,000 persons. The majority said this employment would result in at least $700-million in new
federal income tax revenues.
Republican Objections
Arguing that the housing industry was on the road to recovery, 11 Republicans on the committee insisted that HR 4485 only
2/8/10 1:57 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…ion=print&time=1265655392929&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
Arguing that the housing industry was on the road to recovery, 11 Republicans on the committee insisted that HR 4485 only
would inflate housing prices and interest rates.
“The House will be asked to rush into another emergency housing program, which, based on the lessons of the past, will prove
undesirable,” the Republicans argued. “It is a complicated, administratively involved program which would take months to
activate.”
While questioning the need for the emergency program, the Republicans supported four amendments, most of which were
rejected by both the Housing Subcommittee and the full committee. They would have:
Raised the interest rate under the six-year subsidy program to 7 per cent from 6 per cent.
Required homebuyers participating in the subsidy programs to pay 25 per cent of their income for mortgage payments, taxes and
insurance. The amendment attempted to relate the size of the subsidy to income. Otherwise, the Republicans argued, a family making
$14,000 a year and another making $21,000 a year would receive the same subsidy.
Required homebuyers participating in the six-year subsidy program to repay the amount of the subsidy if they sold their homes at a
profit larger than the subsidy during the six-year period.
Allowed the government to buy up mortgages having interest subsidies for multi-family housing as well as single-family homes.
The Republicans also backed a substitute bill offered by Garry Brown (R Mich.) that would have extended an existing housing aid
program instead of creating a new one.
Stewart B. McKinney (Conn.), the only Republican on the committee voting to approve the bill, emphasized in supplemental views
that he favored the amendment to require homebuyers to pay at least 25 per cent of their income toward the purchase of the
house and to repay the subsidy if a house were sold at a profit within six years.
“I must make it clear that without these amendments, HR 4485 will be little more than a skeleton of a responsible and
comprehensive rehabilitative program,” he said.
Floor Action
Brushing aside strong Republican objections, the House passed HR 4485 on March 21 by a 259-106 roll-call vote.
Republicans contended that the bill actually would hurt the industry because families would delay purchases of houses in
anticipation of new subsidies. (Vote 56, p. 20-H)
The partisan division over the bill, entitled the “Emergency Middle-Income Housing Act of 1975” could set the tone for debate on
a number of other “emergency” measures the Democratic majority was preparing to alleviate the recession. Republicans
complained that Democrats were using the emergency label to disguise ill-conceived, poorly written and expensive legislation.
Warning that HR 4485 would face a presidential veto, Republicans proposed a substitute expanding and revising an existing
mortgage assistance program enacted in 1974. The House turned down the substitute and other Republican-backed
amendments on party-line votes during two days of debate.
The House did approve one key change in the bill as reported March 14 by the Banking, Currency and Housing Committee. It
agreed to earmark a larger share of the subsidies for the purchase of housing not yet built. Key sponsors of the bill, led by
Thomas L. Ashley (D Ohio), argued that new construction, not sale of older existing homes, would have the greatest impact on the
economy.
Debate
Republicans wasted no time attacking the bill, mounting a challenge to the rule (H Res 337) providing for floor consideration of
HR 4485 when debate opened March 20. But the party-line divisions blurred when members from several large urban areas
joined in efforts to amend the bill to make it more favorable to their constituents.
Basic Arguments
Citing February statistics recording a 15.9 per cent unemployment rate in the construction industry and the second-lowest rate of
housing starts on record, sponsors insisted that emergency aid was needed to stimulate new housing construction. By providing
subsidies to families reluctant to buy homes during uncertain economic times, Henry S. Reuss (D Wis.), banking committee
chairman, argued, HR 4485 would help overcome the greatest roadblock to new construction activity.
Parren J. Mitchell (D Md.), one of the the staunchest advocates of housing for the poor on the banking committee, also rejected
arguments that the government should not be subsidizing mortgages for middle-income families. He contended that inflationary
and recessionary factors had forced many young couples and working families out of the housing market through no fault of their
own.
Republicans repeated arguments that the bill was inflationary and poorly designed. They stressed the harmful effects the bill
could have on the housing industry during the months it would require HUD to prepare regulations.
Would anyone advise a constituent to buy a house now if he might qualify for a subsidy later, asked Brown of Michigan. “This
time lag will be critical,” he warned, “and this bill could turn a burgeoning recovery [of the housing industry] into a disaster.”
2/8/10 1:57 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…ion=print&time=1265655392929&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
Robert H. Michel (R Ill.) underscored this argument, suggesting that the bill might be totally inappropriate for market conditions by
the time it was put into effect. “We are always just about one-half cycle behind the market,” he argued.
Challenge to Rule
John B. Anderson (R Ill.) initiated the Republican attack on the bill by raising a point of order against the rule because it waived
provisions of the 1974 budget reform act (PL 93-344) banning approval of new “backdoor” spending. Anderson contended that
the provision pertained to HR 4485 because it, in effect, would authorize Treasury borrowing not subject to appropriation acts.
The Speaker overruled the point of order over the protests of several Republicans. In the House, unlike the Senate, the rulings of
the Chair are never appealed.
“…When we get rid of the orderliness of the House for convenience…, the majority can do anything that it wants to,” complained
Bill  Frenzel (R Minn.). “They can stuff it down our throats if they insist, but sooner or later this sort of thing is going to catch up
with them.”
The discontent was reflected on a 242-142 procedural vote on a motion to close debate and kill any chance of amending the rule
waiving points of order. John W. Wydler (N.Y.) was the only one of 129 voting Republicans to favor the motion. (Vote 49, p. 18-H)
Republican Amendments
Brown introduced the Republican substitute March 21, arguing that there was a good chance the President would sign it. The
substitute would have extended a 1974 mortgage assistance act (PL 93-449) until Oct. 18, 1976, and increased the total value of
mortgages assisted under the act to $15-billion from $7.75-billion. The substitute would have relied on government purchases of
mortgages carrying interest rates no higher than 7½ per cent rather than on direct subsidies.
Brown said his substitute would provide the quickest way to aid the housing industry because HUD already operated the program
and homebuilders understood it.
Ashley attacked the Republican substitute on a number of grounds, but complained specifically that it would not do enough to
stimulate new housing construction.
The House rejected the substitute by a 126–242 vote. Only four of the 114 Republicans voting opposed it. They were Pierre S.
(Pete) du Pont (Del.), Benjamin A. Gilman (N.Y.), Gilbert Gude (Md.) and Charles W. Whalen Jr. (Ohio). (Vote 55, p. 20-H)
The House also voted 145–218 against a Republican-backed amendment, offered by McKinney, that would have required families
receiving subsidies to commit 25 per cent of their income toward housing payments. (Vote 54, p. 20-H)
McKinney argued that it was not fair to require the poor to pay a specific proportion of their income for housing if they
participated in public housing or rental subsidy programs but placed no similar requirement on middle-income families. Ashley
countered that the requirement would “hopelessly confuse and complicate a bill that we are trying to keep relatively pure,
streamlined and efficient.
By voice vote, the House did adopt the Republican-backed amendment to require families participating in the temporary subsidy
program to repay part of the subsidy if they sold their homes at a profit before the end of the six-year period. The amendment,
offered by J. William Stanton (R Ohio), was opposed by Ashley, who questioned requiring repayment under the temporary, but not
the permanent, subsidy program.
Aid to Larger Cities
Constituent interests replaced partisan views during debate on an amendment by Herman Badillo (D N.Y.) to make housing with
an appraised value of up to $48,000 eligible for subsidy assistance in 11 large metropolitan areas. The committee version
generally limited assistance to houses having an appraised value of $38,000, but allowed the value to reach $42,000 in high-cost
areas and $48,000 in Hawaii, Alaska and Guam.
Without the amendment, Badillo argued, the subsidy programs could not operate in the 11 cities including New York, Chicago
and Los Angeles, because the median sale price of new housing in these areas exceeded $42,000. House members from the
affected cities spoke on behalf of the amendment.
Ashley contended that housing was available in these areas for less than $42,000. Nor would families meeting the income test
for the subsidy program be able to afford housing priced any higher, he added.
McKinney, who said the bill would not provide much assistance in his district either, chided his colleagues for putting their
parochial interests above the national need to stimulate the housing industry. “The fact of the matter is that we are going to,
sooner or later, have to stop being utterly and totally provincial within this Congress,” he insisted.
The amendment, opposed by majorities of both the Republicans and Democrats voting on it, was rejected 101–274. (Vote 52, p.
20-H)
New Housing Construction
A third major controversy focused on how much assistance the bill should provide for purchase of new homes not yet built, as
opposed to older existing housing or new homes that had been built but not sold. The slowdown in housing sales had produced
an inventory of about 400,000 units of new, unsold single-family housing and 200,000 to 250,000 new, unsold units in
condominiums.
2/8/10 1:57 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…ion=print&time=1265655392929&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
With Ashley's support, Les AuCoin (D Ore.) offered a series of amendments to replace provisions of the committee version which
would have earmarked up to 25 per cent of the assistance for purchase of housing that was built but not sold and another 20 per
cent for purchase of older existing housing. The AuCoin amendments, adopted by voice votes, would earmark up to 30 per cent
of the subsidies for purchase of either existing or new, unsold housing, leaving at least 70 per cent free for purchase of housing
not yet built.
AuCoin argued that limiting to 55 per cent the amount of assistance that would stimulate new construction, the percentage
provided in the committee version, would dilute the measure's anti-recessionary impact. But other House members questioned
whether the AuCoin amendment would provide much aid to urban areas because little new housing was constructed in the inner-
city. They also challenged the resulting smaller aid that would be made available to move the unsold inventory.
“We cannot have a great, undigested lump of houses for sale and expect to sell new ones,” argued Millicent Fenwick (R N.J.). She
proposed an amendment, rejected 137–229, that would have divided assistance equally between 1) new housing and 2) existing
housing plus the unsold inventory. (Vote 53, p. 20-H)
Ashley contended that Fenwick was overrating the inventory problem because half of the unsold units would cost more than the
limits included in the bill. He stressed repeatedly that the purpose of the bill was to generate the new construction activity needed
to help the economy.
Other Amendments
In other actions on the bill, the House adopted by voice vote an amendment by Elizabeth Holtzman (D N.Y.) to extend the
subsidies to families buying two-family homes so long as they occupied one unit. But it rejected a Republican-backed attempt to
extend the assistance to multi-family housing.
Republicans argued that the bill would not help large cities if it did not include multi-family housing.
Without debate, the House also agreed to an amendment designed to make sure that the bill would not authorize any “backdoor”
spending.
Provisions
As passed by the House, HR 4485:
Established alternative mortgage subsidy programs:
1) Authorized the Department of Housing and Urban Development to subsidize the cost of mortgages for middle-income families by
paying the difference between the mortgage payments required at market interest rates and at a 6 per cent rate for a period of three
years; reduced the subsidy by 25 per cent in each of the succeeding three years and ended it after the sixth year;
2) Authorized HUD to subsidize the cost of mortgages for middle-income families by paying the difference between the mortgage
payments required at market interest rates and at a 7 per cent rate; authorized the subsidy over the entire life of the loan.
Authorized HUD to buy mortgage loans made by lenders carrying 7 per cent interest rates, with Treasury borrowing covering the cost
of making the loans available to house purchasers at below market rates.
Limited the total value of mortgages assisted by the act to $12-billion; limited annual contract authority to make subsidy payments
under the 6 per cent interest rate program to $300-million; limited total contract authority to make subsidy payments under the 7 per
cent interest program to $1.5-billion.
Required families participating in the 6 per cent interest program who sold their homes more than four years but less than seven years
after they were purchased to repay between 25 and 75 per cent of the subsidy to the government if the profit from the sale covered the
amount of the repayments.
Allowed the subsidies to be used toward the purchase of single-family housing, single units in condominiums and cooperatives, and
two-family dwellings if the family occupied one unit.
Allowed the subsidies to be used for the purchase of housing having an appraised value of up to $38,000; allowed up to 10 per cent of
the assistance to be used for the purchase of housing in high-cost areas having an appraised value of up to $42,000; in Alaska,
Hawaii and Guam, allowed the subsidies to be used toward the purchase of housing having an appraised value of up to $48,000.
Restricted subsidy assistance to families having an income of up to 120 per cent of the median family income for a particular part of
the country.
Earmarked no more than 30 per cent of the assistance for purchase of older existing housing or new, unsold housing constructed
before enactment.
Required HUD to allocate assistance under the act on an equitable geographical basis.
Required HUD, in making assistance available, to encourage the construction of housing that would contribute to conservation of land
and energy resources.
2/8/10 1:57 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 9 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…ion=print&time=1265655392929&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
Barred HUD from making any new commitments under the act after June 30, 1976.
House Action—HR 5398
Committee Action
The House Banking, Currency and Housing Committee April 7 reported HR 5398 (H Rept 94–124) to provide federal loans to
jobless persons about to lose their homes because of mortgage default. The committee had approved the bill March 25 on a 29-
0 vote. The Ford administration had suggested the committee was overreacting because available statistics did not show any
rapid increase in home mortgage foreclosures.
Committee approval of HR 5398 came only four days after House passage of HR 4485, providing mortgage interest subsidies for
middle-income families.
Background
The legislation was based on a proposal (HR 34) sponsored by Thomas L. Ashley (D Ohio) that would have authorized federal
payments of up to $375 a month. The panel's Housing Subcommittee reduced the maximum monthly payment to $250 and added
provisions spelling out conditions for eligibility. To qualify, a homeowner must have a reasonable prospect of regaining income
needed to meet mortgage payments and must have been in default on his mortgage for at least two months. The lender holding
the mortgage also must notify HUD that it cannot modify repayment terms.
The administration questioned the need for the bill, arguing that there was no statistical evidence that mortgage foreclosures were
increasing rapidly. HUD officials also predicted that the legislation would discourage lenders from trying to work out forbearance
agreements with homeowners having trouble meeting payments.
Those favoring the loan program argued that statistics had not yet caught up with the economic situation. On March 10, AFL-
CIO President George Meany predicted “an avalanche” of foreclosures as the unemployment rate increased and the jobless
exhausted their unemployment benefits.
Official foreclosure figures gathered by the Federal Home Loan Bank Board were available only through the third quarter of 1974.
Fourth quarter statistics gathered by the Mortgage Bankers Association of America indicated that 0.5 per cent of all mortgage
loans for one-to-four-family homes had been foreclosed. The association predicted modest increases in the foreclosure rate in
1975. It also said that the level of delinquent mortgage payments remained level during the fourth quarter, although there had
been a slight increase in the rate of mortgage delinquencies of more than three months.
In 1933, Congress had established a Home Owner's Loan Corporation to refinance mortgages for families in danger of losing
their homes. The corporation, dismantled in 1951, helped about 800,000 families save their homes.
Provisions
As approved by the committee, HR 5398 would authorize the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to lend up
to $250 a month to unemployed workers and others it determined had suffered a substantial reduction in income because of
adverse economic conditions. The loans could be made for up to two years, but the committee stressed that it did not expect
most homeowners to need the loans for the entire two-year period. Those assisted would repay the loans under conditions set
by HUD at interest of no higher than 8 per cent.
HUD could make the loans only to homeowners the department expected to regain the income needed to make a complete
resumption of mortgage payments. The size of the loan could be reduced if a homeowner experienced some increase in income.
Only those who had missed mortgage payments for at least two months could apply for the loans. The lender holding the
mortgage also would have to inform HUD in writing that it could not work out any forbearance agreement and that foreclosure
was likely. HUD could waive this requirement if the lender refused to submit such a statement, but the homeowner met all other
conditions for assistance.
The bill would authorize a total of $500-million for the program, which would be recovered as loans were repaid. The committee
estimated that the bill would allow assistance to about 300,000 families. HUD could not make any new loan commitments after
July 1, 1976.
Committee Views
The committee argued that unemployment trends pointed to future increases in the number of foreclosures. “…Early action on
HR 5398 is essential,” the committee said, “in order that the legislation be funded and in place in the likely event of a significant
rise in mortgage defaults caused by continued high levels of unemployment and the termination of unemployment compensation
and other temporary benefits.”
The committee predicted that increases in foreclosures would become apparent in the spring and summer of 1975 because it
generally took three to six months for the foreclosure increase to show up after unemployment reached high levels. The
unemployment rate for married men, those most likely to need mortgage relief payments, reached 5.2 per cent in March, the
committee noted.
Supplemental Views
2/8/10 1:57 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 10 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…on=print&time=1265655392929&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
While stressing that HR 5398 was “clearly not a big giveaway,” John H. Rousselot (R Calif.) suggested that the bill would pose
administrative problems. He complained that provisions spelling out eligibility for assistance were so vague that the committee, in
effect, was letting HUD write the bill through regulations.
Given HUD's failure to write satisfactory regulations for other programs, Rousselot suggested, “a great deal of careful work
remains to be done on the floor and in conference before Congress can rest assured that the purposes of this bill will be faithfully
implemented.”
Floor Action
Taking steps last approved during the Great Depression of the 1930s, the House April 14 overwhelmingly passed HR 5398 on a
321-21 roll call. As passed, the legislation would establish a temporary federal loan program for jobless persons facing loss of
their homes because of mortgage default. (Vote 79, p. 30-H)
Despite the administration's objections, the bill won praise from both Democrats and Republicans. One reason for the widespread
support was that, unlike other “emergency” proposals being considered by Congress, HR 5398 would require the unemployed to
repay, with interest, the amount of assistance they received.
“Let me stress that the mortgage relief payments made under this act are not a gift,” said Thomas L. Ashley (D Ohio), the principal
sponsor of the bill. “They are, in fact, a repayable loan…and the homeowner is going to be required to make repayment sooner
or later at an interest rate of up to 8 per cent.”
In contrast to the controversial housing tax credit provision included in the 1975 emergency tax cut bill (PL 94-12) and the
mortgage interest subsidy bill (HR 4485) approved by the House March 21, Republicans as well as Democrats found HR 5398
workable and fiscally responsible. (Tax bill, Economic Policy chapter)
“These two [bills]…may cause suspicions that HR 5398 is just another random and ineffective shot by one of our committees
trying to pin an anti-recession award on itself at the expense of the taxpayers,” said Bill  Frenzel (R Minn.). “I think it is not. I think
HR 5398 is a thoughtful piece of work which we are passing—for once—in advance of the predictable emergency need.”
Administration Concerns
While supporting the bill as a vehicle for giving the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) standby authority to
deal with a possible foreclosure crisis, Garry Brown (Mich.), a key Republican on the banking committee's Housing
Subcommittee, argued that it would cause serious administrative headaches. Other Republicans suggested that HUD would be
forced to review loan applications on a case-by-case basis because the bill's provisions governing eligibility for the program were
vaguely written.
But the bill's sponsors contended that it spelled out basic policies for the emergency program, while giving HUD maximum
administrative flexibility.
No amendments were offered on the floor.
Provisions
As passed by the House, HR 5398:
Authorized HUD to make loans of up to $250 a month to help cover payment of mortgage loan principal, interest, taxes and mortgage
or hazard insurance; limited eligibility for the loans to homeowners who had “incurred a substantial reduction in income as the result of
involuntary unemployment or underemployment due to adverse economic conditions” and who were “financially unable to make the full
mortgage payment.”
Authorized HUD to make loans to an individual homeowner for up to 12 months; allowed HUD to extend the loan period for an
additional year if necessary.
Barred HUD from approving loans unless 1) the lender had notified the homeowner in writing of his intention to foreclose, 2) the lender
had notified HUD in writing that foreclosure was probable (HUD could waive this requirement), 3) the homeowner had missed mortgage
payments for at least two months, 4) the homeowner had a “reasonable prospect” of regaining the income needed to resume full
payment of the mortgage and 5) the mortgaged property was the principal residence of the homeowner.
Required homeowners to repay the amount of the loans at interest rates no higher than 8 per cent under terms and conditions set by
HUD; allowed HUD to defer any repayment until  the home had been sold or the mortgage retired; required HUD to obtain adequate
security for repayment of loans, which could include liens (claims) on the mortgaged properties.
Authorized $500-million, without fiscal year limitation, for the program; barred HUD from making any new loan commitments after July
1, 1976.
Senate Action
Committee
As the House completed its work on HR 5398, the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee reported two
measures (S 1483 and S 1457) similar to the two bills passed by the House (HR 4485 and HR 5398).
2/8/10 1:57 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 11 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…on=print&time=1265655392929&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
Hearings
The committee's housing subcommittee held four days of hearings on emergency housing proposals March 17–20.
HUD Under Secretary James L. Mitchell told the subcommittee March 17 that the administration continued to oppose new
subsidy programs as a means of stimulating the housing industry. He particularly criticized a proposal (S 773) introduced by
William Proxmire (D Wis.), committee chairman, to create a permanent subsidy program triggered by high unemployment levels
and a low rate of housing starts.
Mitchell argued that the bill ignored other important factors such as interest rate trends and inflows into savings and loan
associations.
Mitchell also questioned the need for legislation (S 948) sponsored by Edward W. Brooke (R Mass.) that would provide federal
payments of $1,000 to persons buying new homes from the unsold inventory within four months of enactment or new homes
started within six months and completed within 12 months of enactment.
Housing-related groups generally supported emergency assistance to the construction industry. The National Association of Home
Builders preferred the Proxmire bill over other proposed subsidy programs.
Reports
S 1483—Emergency Housing Aid
The Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee reported S 1483 on April 18 (S Rept 94-86). The broad emergency housing
plan was designed to deal with both current and future slumps in housing construction activity. It would have expanded the
legislation already approved by the House (HR 4485).
The bill was approved on a 10-3 vote, with Republicans John G. Tower of Texas, Jesse A. Helms of North Carolina and Jake Garn
of Utah in opposition. Tower warned that the bill, strongly opposed by the administration, faced an almost certain presidential
veto.
S 1483 would set up a two-part program designed to help the housing industry with its current problems while guaranteeing a
stable supply of mortgage credit in the future. As an immediate stimulus to housing construction, the bill would give up to 400,000
middle-income families their choice of a temporary mortgage interest subsidy or a $1,000 cash grant to apply to the purchase of
homes.
Subsidies for Middle-Income Buyers
Following the provisions of (HR 4485), passed by the House March 21, the committee bill would allow the Department of Housing
and Urban Development (HUD) to pay temporary subsidies to middle-income homebuyers covering the difference between a 6
per cent mortgage interest rate and the market rate. The subsidy would run for three years and then gradually decline until it was
ended after the sixth year.
While the House bill also would authorize a subsidy program running over the life of the mortgage loan, the Senate committee
decided instead to let middle-income homebuyers choose between a $1,000 cash grant and the temporary 6 per cent mortgage
subsidy. Homebuyers could apply the grant to required down payments or closing costs.
To prevent homebuyers from collecting multiple subsidies, the bill would make homebuyers applying for the housing tax credit
provided in the 1975 emergency tax cut bill (PL 94-12) ineligible for a temporary interest subsidy or a cash grant.
Other provisions were similar to those of the House bill. Families with income of up to 120 per cent of the median family income
for a particular area would be eligible for either new program. They could apply the subsidies to the purchase of housing costing
up to $38,000 ($42,000 in high-cost areas). Between 10 and 30 per cent of the assistance could be used to buy houses
completed more than 12 months before purchase, thus reserving most of the aid for purchase of new rather than old existing
housing.
The bill would authorize $300-million for the interest subsidy program and $400-million for the cash grant program. Both
programs would run until June 30, 1976, at the latest.
Mortgage Aid
To “smooth out” the cyclical instability of the housing industry caused by fluctuations in interest rates, the bill would make
permanent an emergency mortgage credit program approved by Congress in 1974. The program would be triggered whenever
the annual rate of new housing starts fell below 1.6 million units for four consecutive months.
The program, which would otherwise expire Oct. 18, 1975, authorized HUD's Government National Mortgage Association (“Ginny
Mae”) to buy up mortgages from lenders, thus freeing more private funds for mortgage loans. The interest rate on mortgages
eligible for purchase could not exceed 8 per cent under the committee bill.
The HUD secretary would not have to activate the program if he determined that housing starts had declined below the 1.6
million-unit average for reasons other than a lack of credit at reasonable interest rates. But either house of Congress could
overrule the secretary's determination.
Energy Conservation
2/8/10 1:57 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 12 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…on=print&time=1265655392929&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
A third section of the bill would require HUD to develop energy conservation standards for new residential and commercial
buildings. Standards would be developed for commercial buildings within 18 months of enactment and for residential buildings
within three years. In general, the standards would set goals for energy efficiency without dictating the means of achieving them.
The standards would be enforced by state and local governments, probably through their building codes. The bill would bar
federal assistance for construction in areas that had not adopted the standards. Lenders also could not make loans for
construction in those areas. The bill would authorize $5-million in fiscal 1976 for grants to help states to carry out the program.
Homeownership
Seeking to remove one obstacle to resumption of a homeownership subsidy program (Section 235) suspended by the
administration in 1973, the committee decided to extend the program through July 1, 1977. Under provisions of the 1974
comprehensive housing act (PL 93-383), the $264-million still available for the program would lapse on Aug. 22, 1975. (1974
housing act, 1974 Almanac p. 364)
The administration had refused to release the funds for the program despite congressional directives that the funds be spent. The
General Accounting Office filed suit April 15 in an effort to force release of the funds under the 1974 budget control act (PL 93-
344). Extension of the program would allow release of the funds after Aug. 22 should court action prove lengthy.
Other Housing Programs
Other provisions of the bill would extend an urban rehabilitation loan program (Section 312) through Sept. 30, 1978. The
program, which the administration had tried to include in a new community development block grant program established by the
1974 housing act, would expire Aug. 22, 1975. The committee argued that competing uses for the block grant funds would leave
little money available for rehabilitation of urban housing.
The bill also would increase the amount of new contract authority provided in the 1974 bill for public housing to $450-million from
$150-million. Half of this amount would be reserved for construction of conventional public housing.
The committee approved the increase because HUD had been slow to implement a new rental subsidy program (Section 8). The
1974 act reserved most of the new contract authority for housing assistance for the Section 8 program, but HUD Secretary Carla
Anderson Hills said April 14 that the department probably would award Section 8 contracts for only 40,000 units by the end of
fiscal 1975.
Given the low level of activity in the Section 8 program, the committee said that it expected HUD to use the public housing
program to increase the number of housing units produced with federal assistance.
New Programs Defended
The committee defended the new programs in economic terms, arguing that recovery of the housing industry was essential “if we
want to get our economy moving again.”
“Stimulating homebuilding is the most efficient means available to create jobs,” the committee insisted. It would cost the
government between $1,000 and $2,500 to create a job under the temporary subsidy and cash grant programs, the committee
estimated, compared to between $10,000 and $20,000 per job under direct public employment or public works programs.
The interest subsidy program also would stimulate the economy by releasing pent-up consumer demand for housing. “Many
families have the money to buy homes; many families want to buy homes,” the committee argued. “What they don't have is
mortgage credit at rates they can afford.”
Republican Objections
Instead of attempting to deal with the current problems of the housing industry, Tower, Garn and Helms said in additional views to
the report, the committee had approved permanent federal programs further reducing the role of the private sector in the housing
industry.
“What has emerged is not so much a program that meets the current crisis in housing, but a permanent program dependent on
federal housing subsidies,” they argued.
The committee bill would turn the 1974 emergency mortgage credit program, “originally created as a ‘shot-in-the-arm’ to the
ailing housing industry,” into a permanent activity, the Republicans noted. Was there any reason to believe that the temporary
interest subsidy and cash grant programs included in the bill would not become permanent, too, they asked.
The Republicans also questioned the need for the cash grant program, arguing that the tax credit provided in the emergency tax
cut bill would give consumers enough incentive to buy houses.
S 1457—Mortgage Aid
The committee substantially rewrote legislation (HR 5398) passed by the House April 14 to provide loans of up to $250 a month
to jobless workers about to lose their homes because of mortgage default.
As an initial step, the Senate committee's bill (S 1457) would require federal agencies supervising lending institutions to
encourage lenders not to foreclose. If institutions found that they would have to foreclose, they would have to give the supervisory
agency, HUD and the homeowner 30 days notice. These requirements would stay in effect for two years after enactment.
2/8/10 1:57 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 13 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…on=print&time=1265655392929&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
The HUD secretary could provide assistance to unemployed workers facing foreclosure in two types of situations. At his own
discretion, the secretary could make assistance available in any housing market area where high unemployment threatened to
result in a large number of foreclosures.
The secretary would be required to make the assistance available on a national basis whenever the Federal Home Loan Bank
Board recorded a national foreclosure rate for any calendar quarter exceeding 0.5 per cent. The bank board's latest statistics, for
the third quarter of 1974, showed a foreclosure rate of 0.405 per cent. A bank board expert said that 1967 was the only time the
rate had exceeded 0.5 per cent in the past 24 years.
The bill would authorize two kinds of assistance to homeowners facing foreclosure. HUD could make loans of up to $250 a month
for a period of up to two years to help homeowners meet their mortgage payments. Or Ginny Mae could obtain mortgages about
to be foreclosed and work out refinancing arrangements with the homeowners. The unpaid balance of mortgages acquired by
Ginny Mae could not exceed $45,000. Provisions governing the loan program were generally identical to those of the House-
passed bill.
The bill would authorize $500-million for the assistance program. HUD could not provide any new assistance beyond two years
from enactment.
Floor Action
Disregarding warnings of a presidential veto, the Senate April 24 approved a broad package of assistance to the depressed
housing industry. The vote was 64-26. (Vote 148, p. 23-S)
The legislation approved by the Senate (HR 4485) included the provisions of both bills approved by the Senate Banking, Housing
and Urban Affairs Committee—S 1483, to provide emergency aid to the housing industry, and S 1457, to provide loans to jobless
workers to save them from foreclosure on their homes.
Key provisions of the bill would offer middle-income families temporary mortgage interest subsidies or cash grants of $1,000 as
incentives to purchase new homes and thus stimulate housing construction. The bill also would activate an emergency mortgage
credit program which was enacted in 1974 whenever new housing starts dropped below certain levels. The 1974 act, which relied
on government purchases of mortgages from lenders to free funds for new loans, was scheduled to expire Oct. 18, 1975.
The mortgage aid provisions were added as an amendment to the bill, superseding the related measure (S 1457) reported by the
Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee. The amendment would authorize the Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD) to make loans of up to $300 per month for a period of three years to help the unemployed cover mortgage
payments.
Other Provisions
The Senate version also would require HUD to set standards for the efficient use of energy in new buildings and provide a six-
month delay in the effective date of controversial provisions of a 1973 flood insurance act.
William Proxmire (D Wis.), banking committee chairman, put the initial cost of the committee version of the bill at about $1-billion.
The loan program for the jobless would authorize an additional $750-million, but the federal government would recapture most of
these funds as the loans were repaid.
Veto Possibility
Senior members of the banking committee differed over the prospects for a presidential veto. “I believe that the chances are
great that the bill will be vetoed if it goes to the President in its present form,” warned John G. Tower (R Texas), ranking minority
member on the committee, “and it may prove that what we are doing here then has turned out to be an exercise in futility.”
“Nobody knows whether or not this measure is going to be vetoed,” countered Proxmire. “If ever a bill was made to order for the
present time, it is this bill. I hope the President will see this…. If he does not, I think there is a very strong possibility that
Congress may well pass it over his veto.”
The chances for a veto override probably would be strengthened if House-Senate conferees agree to keep the loan program for
the jobless as part of the assistance bill. This is particularly true in the House, where a majority of Republicans opposed HR
4485, but overwhelmingly supported the loan program for jobless homeowners.
Debate
“The pending bill is, in my view, the number one ‘put-our-people-back-to-work’ bill that the Congress will have an opportunity to
act on,” Proxmire said in opening two days of debate on the legislation April 23.
Predicting that the bill would create 800,000 jobs and stimulate production of goods and services worth $12-billion, Proxmire
maintained that stimulating the housing industry was the best way to lead the country out of the recession. “It is a non-
inflationary bill,” he added, “because it would use idle resources.” The unemployment rate for the construction industry was 18.1
per cent in March, he pointed out.
But Tower maintained that the bill would lead to unnecessary federal interference in private credit markets and questioned
whether another emergency assistance program would succeed where others had failed.
“You can make homebuying as attractive as possible—with discounts, subsidized interest, taxes paid for one year—but the
2/8/10 1:57 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 14 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…on=print&time=1265655392929&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
“You can make homebuying as attractive as possible—with discounts, subsidized interest, taxes paid for one year—but the
consumer is not going to purchase unless he knows he will have an income that will enable him to afford the house,” Tower
argued. The billions of dollars already provided for emergency aid to the housing industry, he added, had “failed to put the brakes
on the downward slide of housing starts.”
Arguing that the federal government should not subsidize the purchase of housing for middle-income families, Tower also found
the bill inequitable. “Pity the hard working person who pays an 8-per-cent-plus interest rate,” he suggested, “and the next week,
when the trigger in this bill is released, his new neighbor can get a 6 per cent mortgage.”
Tower also questioned whether the cash grant and interest subsidy programs would remain temporary, predicting that Congress
would be pressured into making them permanent.
Aid to Jobless Homeowners
Republicans and Democrats clashed over the addition of the loan program for jobless homeowners to the basic assistance bill.
The amendment, offered by Walter F. Mondale (D Minn.), authorized the HUD secretary to make emergency mortgage relief
payments on behalf of homeowners who were delinquent in their mortgage payments. Such payments would have to be repaid.
Republicans generally supported the loan program, but objected to adding it to a bill that they maintained the President was
going to veto. Robert P. Griffin (R Mich.), minority whip, suggested that the Democrats were supporting the amendment to help
protect the bill from a presidential veto. If the President did veto the bill, he argued, some senators would probably blame Ford for
the failure of the federal government to provide aid to jobless homeowners.
Instead, Tower tried to bring up a separate bill (S 1457) that the banking committee had approved to help jobless homeowners;
he said its approval would be the quickest way to get a relief measure enacted.
But Proxmire contended there was a real possibility that the President also would veto S 1457. He also noted that S 1457 differed
substantially from the related House-passed bill (HR 5398), whereas Mondale's amendment followed the structure of the House
measure.
A motion by Mike Mansfield (D Mont.) to table Tower's motion to bring up S 1457 was agreed to by a 56-29 vote. All 29 senators
opposing the tabling motion were Republicans. Reflecting the basic Republican support for a loan program, however, the
Mondale amendment, which was broadened by a Richard (Dick) Stone (D Fla.) proposal adding mobile homes, condominium units
and boats used as residences, was adopted later by an 89-1 vote. Edmund S. Muskie (D Maine), chairman of the Senate Budget
Committee, was the only senator to oppose it. (Votes 146, 147, p. 22-S)
Flood Insurance Program
Thomas F. Eagleton (D Mo.) proposed the most controversial amendment, which was only indirectly related to the basic housing
provisions of the bill. The amendment, which he later withdrew, would have modified provisions of a 1973 act (PL 93-234) that
required flood-prone areas to adopt by July 1, 1975, land-use standards developed by HUD. Communities that did not adopt the
standards could not qualify for the government's flood insurance program. An even more drastic provision of the 1973 law barred
lenders from making mortgage loans in areas that had not adopted the standards by the July 1 deadline. (1973 Almanac p. 667)
Eagleton's amendment would have repealed the provisions barring mortgage lending and allowed individual homeowners living in
flood-prone areas that had not adopted the federal standards to participate in the insurance program if they individually agreed to
observe them. Eagleton argued that only a few of the 22,000 areas had adopted the standards so far, and that it was unfair to
penalize individuals if their local government would not agree to adopt the standards.
Proxmire opposed the amendment, arguing that most communities would adopt the standards on schedule. He also maintained
that it would be unwise to change the 1973 act without hearings. The 1973 act was designed to hold down the federal cost of
providing disaster relief to areas that allowed new construction in locations with frequent flooding.
Given Proxmire's promise to hold hearings, Eagleton withdrew the amendment. Instead, the Senate adopted another Eagleton
amendment by voice vote that would delay the July 1 deadline for adoption of the standards until Jan. 1, 1976.
Other Amendments
The Senate also adopted a number of other amendments by voice votes.
Alan Cranston (D Calif.) offered the only one of these amendments that dealt directly with the bill's provisions. It would raise the
ceiling on the appraised value of housing in high-cost areas eligible for the interest subsidy or the cash grant programs to
$48,000, from the $42,000 maximum provided in the committee version. The amendment also pushed the ceiling on the value of
housing eligible in Alaska, Hawaii and Guam to $56,000, from $48,000.
Some of the other amendments:
Made it clear that HUD was to use funds earmarked for housing for Indians in the 1974 housing act (PL 93-383) for construction that
the department had not proposed before enactment of the 1974 act. Joseph M. Montoya (D N.M.), sponsor of the amendment,
complained that HUD was using the funds to fulfill  commitments that it had proposed in 1969. (1974 act, 1974 Almanac p. 364)
Required new federal buildings, to the extent feasible, to be constructed with windows that could be opened by hand. Lowell P.
Weicker Jr. (R Conn.), who offered the amendment, argued that sealed windows increased the wasteful use of energy “on many days
when reasonable comfort could be achieved by opening the windows.”
2/8/10 1:57 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 15 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…on=print&time=1265655392929&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
Required HUD, upon enactment, to begin processing applications for a loan program to aid development of housing for the elderly.
Edward M. Kennedy (D Mass.), the amendment's sponsor, pointed out that HUD had not even issued new regulations for the program,
which was reactivated by the 1974 housing act.
Final Passage
After Tower reviewed his arguments against the bill and Proxmire again rebutted them, the Senate passed the measure by a 64-
26 vote. Twenty-two Republicans and four Democrats opposed the bill. Before passing HR 4485, the Senate had amended it to
contain the provisions of its own bill (S 1483) as modified by the amendments adopted on the floor. (Vote 148, p. 23-S)
Provisions
As passed by the Senate, HR 4485:
Required HUD's Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) to buy up mortgages from private lenders whenever the
seasonally adjusted average annual rate of new housing starts fell below 1.6 million units for four consecutive months; limited the
maximum interest rate on mortgages eligible for purchase to 8 per cent.
Gave the HUD secretary authority not to activate the mortgage purchase program if he determined that housing starts had fallen below
the 1.6 million unit rate for reasons other than a lack of mortgage credit at reasonable interest rates; allowed either house of Congress
to overrule the secretary's determination.
Made mortgages on multi-family residences and condominium units, as well as those on one-to-four family homes, eligible for
purchase by GNMA.
Authorized HUD to subsidize the cost of mortgages for middle-income families by paying the difference between the mortgage
payments required at market interest rates and at a 6 per cent rate for a period of three years; reduced the subsidy by 25 per cent in
each of the succeeding three years and ended it after the sixth year.
Authorized HUD to give middle-income families a cash grant of $1,000 to be used for a required down payment on a home or closing
costs instead of a mortgage interest subsidy.
Limited the total number of families assisted under both programs to 400,000.
Barred families collecting a tax credit on housing purchases authorized under the 1975 emergency tax cut bill (PL 94-12) from
receiving either interest subsidies or cash grants for down payment costs.
Earmarked no less than 10 per cent and no more than 30 per cent of the assistance under the interest subsidy and cash grant
programs for the purchase of homes built more than one year before those assisted bought them.
Restricted the assistance to families with incomes of up to 120 per cent of the median family income for a particular part of the country.
Allowed the assistance to be used toward the purchase of single-family housing, single units in cooperatives or condominiums and
two-family dwellings if the family occupied one unit.
Allowed the assistance to be used for the purchase of housing having an appraised value of up to $38,000 (up to $48,000 in high-cost
areas, and $56,000 in Alaska, Hawaii and Guam).
Required families participating in the assistance programs who sold their homes within seven years after purchase to repay a portion
of the assistance unless the family bought a new home within 18 months.
Limited total contract authority for cash grant payments to $400-million; limited annual contract authority for interest subsidy payments
to $300-million.
Barred HUD from making new commitments under the interest subsidy and cash grant programs after July 1, 1976, or whenever the
annual rate of housing starts exceeded 1.4 million units for three months, whichever came sooner.
Required HUD to develop standards, to take effect within three years of enactment, for the efficient use of energy in new commercial
buildings; required development of similar standards for new residential buildings, to take effect within 4½ years of enactment.
Barred federal construction assistance to any area that had not incorporated the HUD standards in local building codes once they took
effect; barred federally insured lenders from making construction loans or financing loans for new buildings in areas not adopting the
HUD standards.
To the maximum extent feasible, required new federal buildings to contain windows that could be opened by hand.
Authorized $5-million in fiscal 1976 to help states develop procedures for implementing the HUD energy efficiency standards.
Extended an urban rehabilitation loan program (Section 312) through Sept. 30, 1978.
2/8/10 1:57 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 16 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…on=print&time=1265655392929&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
Extended a homeownership subsidy program (Section 235) through July 1, 1977.
Increased new contract authority for public housing construction contained in a 1974 housing law (PL 93-383) to $450-million, from
$150-million; earmarked half of the increase for construction of conventional public housing.
Required HUD to begin processing applications for a low-cost loan program for developers of housing for the elderly and handicapped
(Section 202) upon enactment of the bill;  required HUD to complete the processing with 75 days after receiving an application for the
program.
Barred HUD from using funds earmarked for development of housing for Indians contained in the 1974 housing act to fulfill
commitments it had announced in 1969.
Extended to Jan. 1, 1976, from July 1, 1975, the deadline set for adoption of HUD land use standards by communities in flood-prone
areas wishing to participate in the federal flood insurance program.
Jobless Homeowners
The Senate version of HR 4485 also authorized a federal loan program for jobless homeowners unable to meet mortgage
payments. These provisions differed slightly from those of a similar bill (HR 5398) approved by the House April 14.
These provisions in the Senate-passed version:
Authorized HUD to make loans of up to $300 a month for a period of three years, instead of up to $250 a month for two years as
provided in the House-passed bill.
Authorized a total of $750-million for the program, compared to the $500-million authorized by the House version.
Allowed HUD to make the loans to jobless persons who owned boats and used them as residences, a group excluded by the House
bill.
Conference
After paring down the bill in hopes of winning wider support, House-Senate conferees announced final agreement on emergency
housing legislation (HR 4485) just before the Memorial Day recess began May 22.
Key provisions of the conference version would establish three temporary subsidy programs for homebuyers designed to
stimulate the housing industry. The other major section would set up a temporary federal loan program for jobless homeowners
who had missed mortgage payments for two months in a row. Mortgage bankers estimated in mid-May that 250,000 families
were two months behind in payments.
Discarding an agreement reached May 12, conferees decided May 21 to throw out provisions passed by the Senate April 24 that
would have triggered federal mortgage aid under a 1974 act (PL 93-449) whenever housing starts fell below certain levels. In
effect, the provisions would have made the 1974 program permanent.
Senior Democrats on the House and Senate banking committees decided to modify the conference version approved May 12
amid signs that it might run into trouble on the House floor. The version passed by the House March 21 had faced strong
Republican opposition even though it did not contain the permanent mortgage aid program.
The most influential critic of the first conference version was Rep. Ashley. Ashley called the May 12 version an unrealistic “hoax”
that did not have a chance of winning presidential approval.
“Every House and Senate conferee knows perfectly well there's no prospect whatever of the report being adopted and signed by
the President in its present form,” Ashley insisted.
Ashley and three Republican House members who had opposed the bill in committee did not sign the conference report. Sen.
Jake Garn (R Utah), who also opposed the legislation in committee, did not sign the report either.
Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary Carla A. Hills argued May 19 that the legislation would delay a housing
recovery because potential homebuyers would defer purchases in anticipation of subsidies while it took HUD at least a year to
make the programs fully effective.
Report
After deciding May 21 to drop the permanent mortgage assistance program proposed by the Senate, conferees filed a report (H
Rept 94–246) the next day on their agreements.
In general, conferees combined House- and Senate-passed programs to aid middle-income homebuyers, adopted the House-
passed mortgage loan program for the jobless and accepted, with some changes, many of the Senate-passed provisions dealing
with other housing programs.
Subsidies for Middle-Income Buyers
2/8/10 1:57 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 17 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…on=print&time=1265655392929&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
Conferees agreed on three types of new subsidy programs for middle-income homebuyers. Both the House and Senate versions
defined middle-income homebuyers as families with income of up to 120 per cent of the median family income in a particular
area.
Types of Subsidies. As proposed by the Senate, the first subsidy program would provide cash grants of $1,000 to be applied to
down payment costs. Conferees modified Senate-passed provisions, however, by limiting eligibility to families buying houses for
which construction began on or after March 26, 1975. The limitation dovetailed with provisions of the 1975 emergency tax cut act
(PL 94-12) authorizing tax credits for purchase of new housing constructed before March 26.
House- and Senate-passed provisions for the second subsidy program generally were identical. They would authorize HUD to
make payments needed to subsidize mortgage interest rates down to 6 per cent for three years. The subsidy would decrease by
25 per cent in each of the next three years and end after the sixth year.
Conferees retained part of a third subsidy program approved by the House. It would subsidize interest rates down to 7 per cent
over the life of the loan indirectly by authorizing HUD's Government National Mortgage Association to buy up 7 per cent loans
made by lenders. Treasury borrowings would cover the cost of making loans available at below-market rates.
While agreeing to the indirect subsidy approach, conferees rejected House-passed provisions that would have authorized HUD to
make direct payments needed to subsidize interest rates down to 7 per cent over the life of the loan. The Senate version of the
bill did not authorize either one of the 7 per cent interest subsidy programs.
Eligible Housing. Conferees accepted House-passed ceilings on the appraised value of housing families seeking subsidies
could purchase. They limited the appraised value of eligible housing in high-cost areas to $42,000 and housing in Alaska, Hawaii
and Guam to $48,000. The comparable Senate-approved ceilings were $48,000 and $56,000. Both versions set a basic ceiling of
$38,000.
But conferees increased to 15 per cent the amount of assistance that could be used for purchase of housing in high-cost areas.
The House version would have limited this assistance to 10 per cent; the Senate version did not contain a comparable limit.
With the addition of the cash grant program for families buying houses begun after March 26, conferees also modified House-
passed provisions limiting the amount of assistance that could be used to buy old existing housing and newly constructed, but
never occupied, housing. They earmarked no more than 20 per cent of the aid for purchase of existing housing and newly
constructed housing for which construction began before March 26. Thus, this limit would not affect assistance under the cash
grant program.
The House version would have limited this assistance to 30 per cent. The Senate version would have earmarked no less than 10
per cent and no more than 30 per cent of the assistance for purchase of housing that was constructed more than a year before a
family seeking a subsidy bought it.
Limitations. Conferees adopted Senate-passed provisions barring subsidies under the new programs to families collecting
housing tax credits under the tax cut act. The House passed its version of the bill before enactment of the tax cut measure.
In general, conferees also barred families from receiving assistance under more than one of the new subsidy programs. Families
receiving mortgage loans at below-market rates under the 1974 emergency mortgage aid act also would not be eligible for the
cash grant program.
Conferees also accepted Senate-passed provisions governing repayment of subsidies by families receiving cash grants or the
six-year mortgage interest subsidies. Families would be required to repay part of their assistance if they sold their homes at a
profit within seven years of purchase and did not buy another home within 18 months. The House version would have required
some repayment under similar conditions regardless of whether the family bought another home.
Authorizations. The conference version combined House and Senate-passed authorizations for the new subsidy programs. Like
the House bill, the conference version would limit the total value of assisted mortgages to $12-billion. In addition, conferees
limited annual contract authority for the six-year interest subsidy program to $300-million and total contract authority for the cash
grant program to $400-million.
HUD could not make any new commitments under any of the programs after June 30, 1976. Conferees dropped Senate-passed
provisions that would have terminated the program earlier if housing starts averaged 1.4 million units for three consecutive
months.
Mortgage Aid to Jobless
The House version of HR 4485 did not include a mortgage loan program for the jobless, but conferees accepted provisions of a
separate mortgage loan bill (HR 5398) approved by the House April 14.
The conference version would authorize HUD to make loans of up to $250 a month for a period of two years to unemployed
workers unable to meet mortgage payments. The Senate version would have authorized loans of up to $300 a month for three
years. Conferees also approved the $500-million total authorization for the program passed by the House instead of the $750-
million Senate-approved authorization.
Conferees deleted a Senate provision that would have made jobless owners of houseboats eligible for the loan program.
Both the Senate version of HR 4485 and HR 5398 as passed by the House required homeowners to repay the loans at interest of
no higher than 8 per cent.
2/8/10 1:57 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 18 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…on=print&time=1265655392929&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
Other Programs
Conferees accepted, with modifications, a number of Senate-passed provisions dealing with other housing programs not
contained in the House version.
But they dropped Senate provisions that would have required HUD to develop standards for the efficient use of energy in new
commercial and residential buildings. Conferees said they eliminated the provisions in order to let House committees finish action
on various energy conservation measures. Their decision killed another Senate-passed provision that would have required that
new federal buildings contain windows that could be opened by hand.
Conferees also dropped Senate-approved provisions that would have required HUD to begin processing applications for a low-
cost loan program (Section 202) for developers of housing for the elderly upon enactment and to complete the processing within
75 days of receiving an application. Conferees argued that “this rigid processing requirement could do more harm to the efficient
implementation of the programs than good,” but urged HUD to speed up processing of applications.
As modified, the Senate-passed provisions accepted by conferees:
Extended a homeownership subsidy program (Section 312) through Aug. 22, 1977. The Senate version would have extended the
program through Sept. 30, 1978.
Extended a homeownership subsidy program (Section 235) suspended by the administration in early 1973 through July 1, 1977, as
proposed by the Senate. But conferees dropped Senate provisions extending until  the same date the period during which HUD could
use the $264.1-million still available for the program. HUD had refused to release the funds, which will lapse on Aug. 22, 1975. The
program was caught in a legal battle over the impoundment provisions of the 1974 budget reform act, and conferees said they were
uncertain how an extension of the period for use of the funds would affect this situation.
Increased new contract authority for public housing construction contained in a 1974 housing law (PL 93-383) to $300-million from
$150-million. The Senate version would have increased this authority to $400-million.
Barred HUD from using funds earmarked in the 1974 law for development of housing for Indians to fulfill  commitments the department
had announced in 1969. The Senate-passed provision was identical.
Extended to Jan. 1, 1976, from July 1, 1975, the effective date of provisions of a 1973 flood insurance act (PL 93-234) barring lenders
from making mortgage loans in areas that had not adopted HUD land use standards for flood-prone areas. Conferees refused to
accept other Senate provisions that would have delayed until  the same date the July 1 deadline for adoption of the standards by
communities wishing to participate in the federal flood insurance program.
Made mortgages on multi-family residences and condominiums, as well as those on one- to four-family homes, eligible for purchase by
HUD under the 1974 emergency mortgage aid act.
Final Action
Congress completed final action on HR 4485 on June 11. The conference version approved by both the House and Senate
aroused the strong opposition of Republicans and some key Democrats on the House Banking, Currency and Housing Committee
who complained that the House had been forced to accept “Christmas tree” provisions like the $1,000 cash grant program
approved by the Senate. They argued that the cash grant program was too much on top of the $2,000 tax credit for housing
purchases included in the tax cut act.
The critics also objected to folding the non-controversial mortgage loan program for jobless homeowners into an emergency
housing bill facing an almost certain presidential veto. The loan program had won the strong support of Republicans in the House
and Senate. The House originally passed a separate mortgage loan bill (HR 5398), but the Senate added the loan provisions on
to HR 4485.
House
The House adopted the conference report June 5 by a 253-155 vote after heated debate. Opponents warned of a certain
presidential veto that they felt would be sustained, while those supporting the bill, including Majority Leader Thomas P. O'Neill Jr.
(D Mass.), urged Congress to stand up for legislation needed to stimulate the economy. The margin of approval fell 19 votes
short of the two-thirds majority needed to override a veto. (Vote 193, p. 62-H)
Supporters stressed the anti-recessionary impact of the legislation, estimating that it would put 800,000 Americans back to work
and stimulate the construction of 500,000 housing units.
“This is going to help stimulate the economy and we should take legislation like this and put it on the desk of the President,”
O'Neill argued. “Let the American public know that there are some people who are concerned with the plight of the nation, with
the economy the way it is and the fact that unemployment is increasing day by day.”
The critics were emphatic in their opposition. “This conference report is doomed,” thundered Thomas L. Ashley (D Ohio) at the end
of an emotional speech. Ashley's opposition was critical because he was widely regarded as the most knowledgable House
member in housing affairs. He said it was the first conference report he had not supported during nearly two decades on the
Banking, Currency and Housing Subcommittee on Housing.
Ashley called the conference version “a turkey,” “a loser,” that “will never see the light of day.” He maintained that the Senate-
2/8/10 1:57 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 19 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…on=print&time=1265655392929&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
Ashley called the conference version “a turkey,” “a loser,” that “will never see the light of day.” He maintained that the Senate-
passed provisions accepted by House conferees gave the President ample justification to veto the bill.
“I do not understand why we insist on serving up these veto pitches that come over the plate the size of a pumpkin,” Ashley
complained. “I do not understand the surprise, frustration, the little shrieks of anger when the President picks on these fat
cripples and drives them out of the ball park. What on earth can we expect?”
Garry Brown (Mich.), ranking Republican on the Housing Subcommittee, had no kinder words, suggesting that the subsidy
section of the bill should be renamed “The Federal Handouts Act for 400,000 Lucky Homebuyers.” Brown specifically objected to
the $1,000 cash grant program and other provisions added by the Senate.
In light of the fact the House had been unable the previous day to override the President's veto of a popular jobs appropriation
bill, Brown suggested that the House should take a more realistic attitude. “If the majority cannot get the votes it needs to enact
its programs and override vetoes,” he argued, “for God's sake, let us recognize that there is a partnership and someone else may
have ideas that should be considered.”
Ashley won the support of Banking Committee Democrat Thomas M. Rees (Calif.), who called the bill “overkill in the area of
housing.” But most committee Democrats voiced strong support for the conference version. Ashley, Rees, Leonor K. Sullivan (Mo.)
and Robert G. Stephens Jr. (Ga.) were the only committee Democrats to vote against adopting the report.
Republicans expressed their strong opposition by voting 28–111 against the report; 44 of 269 Democrats opposed the bill.
Senate
The Senate adopted the conference report June 11 by a 72-24 vote, completing congressional action. The margin of approval
was eight votes more than the two-thirds majority needed to override a veto, but the Senate would not have the chance to vote
on an override if the House sustained a presidential veto of the legislation. (Vote 221, p. 33-S)
Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee Chairman William Proxmire (D Wis.) stressed that HR 4485 was a jobs bill that
would help relieve the 21.8 per cent unemployment rate in the construction industry in May at a “cost to the federal government
lower than any other job-producing legislation.” Although the bill would cost the federal government $1.7-billion, Proxmire
estimated that it would stimulate production resulting in a minimum federal tax revenue increase of $3-billion.
Banking Committee Republicans were critical of the legislation. John G. Tower (Texas), top Republican on the committee,
predicted that the bill would “exacerbate housing problems” because its inflationary impact would only drive interest rates higher.
Jake Garn (R Utah), a junior member of the Banking Committee, complained that conferees had turned the bill into “a big
Christmas tree,” finding the House-passed version more responsible. “It's too much,” he argued, “and it's too late.”
All but two of 60 voting Democrats—James B. Allen (Ala.) and Harry F. Byrd Jr. (Ind Va.)—supported the conference version.
Fourteen of 36 voting Republicans also voted for the bill.
Provisions
As cleared for the President, HR 4485:
Subsidies for Middle-Income Buyers
Authorized HUD to subsidize the cost of mortgages for middle-income families by paying the difference between the mortgage
payments required at market interest rates and at a 6 per cent rate for a period of three years; reduced this subsidy by 25 per cent in
each of the three succeeding years and ended it after the sixth year.
Authorized HUD to give middle-income families cash grants of $1,000 to be used for down payments on houses for which construction
began on or after March 26, 1975; barred payment of cash grants to families receiving assistance under a 1974 emergency mortgage
aid act (PL 93-449) or interest subsidies authorized by other provisions of HR 4485.
Authorized HUD's Government National Mortgage Association to buy up mortgage loans made by lenders carrying 7 per cent interest
rates over the life of the loan, with Treasury borrowing covering the cost of making loans available at below-market rates.
Barred families collecting tax credits for housing purchases authorized by the 1975 emergency tax cut act (PL 94-12) from receiving
interest subsidies or cash grants.
Earmarked no more than 20 per cent of the assistance under the interest subsidy and cash grant programs for purchase of older,
existing homes or new, unsold housing for which construction began before March 26, 1975.
Limited the assistance to families with incomes of up to 120 per cent of the median family income for a particular part of the country.
Allowed the assistance to be used toward the purchase of single-family housing, single units in cooperatives or condominiums, or two-
family housing if the family occupied one unit.
Allowed the assistance to be used toward the purchase of housing having an appraised value of up to $38,000; allowed up to 15 per
cent of the assistance to be used for the purchase of 1) housing in high-cost areas having an appraised value of up to $42,000 or 2)
housing in Alaska, Hawaii or Guam having an appraised value of up to $48,000.
2/8/10 1:57 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 20 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…on=print&time=1265655392929&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
Required families participating in the cash grant or 6 per cent interest subsidy program to repay a portion of their assistance if they sold
their homes at a profit within seven years of purchase and did not buy another home within 18 months (or within 24 months, if the
family purchased a newly constructed home).
Limited the total value of mortgages assisted to $12-billion; limited annual contract authority for the 6 per cent interest subsidy program
to $300-million; limited total contract authority for the cash grant program to $400-million.
Barred HUD from making any new commitments under the programs after June 30, 1976.
Required HUD to offer eligible families their choice of assistance programs, to the extent practicable.
Mortgage Aid to Jobless
Authorized HUD to make loans of up to $250 a month to help cover payment of mortgage loan principal, interest, taxes and mortgage
or hazard insurance; limited eligibility for the loans to homeowners who had “incurred a substantial reduction in income as the result of
involuntary unemployment or underemployment due to adverse economic conditions” and who were “financially unable to make the full
mortgage payment.”
Authorized HUD to make loans to an individual homeowners for up to 12 months; allowed HUD to extend the loan period for an
additional year if necessary; required those assisted to report any increase in income affecting their ability to meet mortgage payments.
Barred HUD from approving loans unless 1) the lender had notified the homeowner of his intention to foreclose, 2) the lender had
notified HUD in writing that foreclosure was probable (HUD could waive this requirement), 3) the homeowner had missed mortgage
payments for at least two months, 4) the homeowner had a “reasonable prospect” of regaining the income needed to resume full
payment of the mortgage and 5) the mortgaged property was the principal residence of the homeowner.
Allowed jobless homeowners to use the loans to make mortgage payments on single-family homes, condominium units, mobile homes
or units in multi-family dwellings.
Required homeowners to repay the amount of the loans at interest rates no higher than 8 per cent under terms and conditions set by
HUD; allowed HUD to defer any repayment until  the home had been sold or the mortgage retired; required HUD to obtain adequate
security for repayment of loans, which could include liens (claims) on the mortgaged properties.
Authorized $500-million, without fiscal year limitation, for the program; barred HUD from making any new loan commitments after July
1, 1976.
Required HUD and federal agencies supervising financial institutions to take steps, for a period of two years after enactment, to
encourage lenders to forbear in residential mortgage loan foreclosures; required the agencies to ask lenders to notify HUD, the
supervisory agency and the homeowner at least 30 days before beginning foreclosure proceedings.
Required HUD, within 60 days of enactment and at 60-day intervals thereafter until  July 1, 1976, to report to Congress on foreclosure
and mortgage delinquency rates and actions being taken to encourage forbearance.
Miscellaneous Provisions
Extended an urban rehabilitation loan program (Section 312) through Aug. 22, 1977.
Extended a homeownership subsidy program (Section 235) suspended by the administration in early 1973 through July 1, 1977.
Increased new contract authority for public housing construction contained in a 1974 housing law (PL 93-383) to $300-million from
$150-million.
Barred HUD from using funds earmarked in the 1974 law for development of housing for Indians to fulfill  commitments the department
had announced in 1969.
Extended to Jan. 1, 1976, from July 1, 1975, the effective date of provisions of a 1973 flood insurance act (PL 93-234) barring lenders
from making mortgage loans on existing housing in areas that had not adopted HUD land use standards for flood-prone areas.
Made mortgages on multi-family residences and condominiums, as well as those on one- to four-family homes, eligible for purchase by
HUD under the 1974 emergency mortgage aid act.
Veto
On June 24, President Ford vetoed HR 4485.
In his veto message, Ford maintained that the bill “due to its cost, ineffectiveness and delayed stimulus, would damage the
housing industry and damage the economy.” (Veto text, p. 36-A)
Specifically, the President complained that the new subsidy programs would take the Department of Housing and Urban
2/8/10 1:57 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 21 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…on=print&time=1265655392929&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
Specifically, the President complained that the new subsidy programs would take the Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD) too long to implement, that they would cost too much and give some homebuyers “an excessive benefit at
the taxpayers' expense.” While he did not object to the idea of providing relief to jobless homeowners facing foreclosure, Ford
complained that the bill's loan program would “unnecessarily place the federal government in the retail loan-making business as a
sole means of relief.”
Instead, the President endorsed alternative proposals, similar to those in the Ashley bill. He said that his proposals could be put
into effect immediately because they would rely on a program already in operation.
In contrast, the President argued, HR 4485 would set up three brand new subsidy programs for which regulations would have to
be written. “Since there appears to have been no consensus in favor of any one of these new subsidies,” the President chided
Congress, “the bill adopts all of them in the hope that something will work.”
Alternative Proposal
As an immediate step, Ford said he would release $2-billion still available under an emergency mortgage assistance act (PL 93-
449) approved by Congress in 1974. Under this so-called “tandem plan” program, the government bought up mortgage loans
from lenders carrying below-market interest rates, thus freeing more private funds for mortgage lending. The government then
resold the mortgages in the secondary market, with Treasury borrowing covering any losses caused by making the loans
available at below-market rates.
The President also proposed legislation similar to the bill introduced by Ashley and Brown. His proposal would extend the 1974
mortgage purchase program, scheduled to expire Oct. 18, until June 30, 1976, and provide an additional $7.75-billion for the
program. This figure would be a limit on the total outstanding value of mortgages purchased, not the federal cost.
The President did not mention any specific interest rate for mortgages purchased under the program. But HUD Secretary Carla
A. Hills noted that the Ashley bill would set a 7.5 per cent interest rate, between 1.5 and 2 per cent below the market level. The
Ashley bill also would authorize a purchase limit of $10-billion.
To help jobless homeowners faced with foreclosure, the President indicated that he would support provisions of the Ashley bill.
The bill would give HUD authority to make loans of up to $250 a month for two years to help cover mortgage payments for the
unemployed and the authority to coinsure lenders against possible losses if they did not foreclose. Lenders would pay premiums
for the coinsurance and homeowners would repay the loans at interest rates no higher than those on federally insured
mortgages. The bill would authorize open-ended sums for the program.
Arguing that the foreclosure rate had not increased so dramatically as some had anticipated during the recession, the President
clearly labeled the foreclosure relief proposal a “standby” program. He also argued that the coinsurance provisions, not contained
in HR 4485, would encourage lenders to work out forbearance agreements with less federal interference.
Rebuttal
House Banking, Currency and Housing Committee Chairman Henry S. Reuss (D Wis.) and spokesmen for housing and labor
groups objected to the alternative proposal, most strongly on the grounds that it would not require the administration to make any
of the new funds available. The 1974 program left release of funds up to the President's discretion, while HR 4485 would have
made it more difficult for HUD to withhold funding.
The Ashley bill “will not meet the goal of increasing construction employment,” complained William S. Moorhead (D Pa.), a Banking
Committee sponsor of HR 4485. “Its only goal seems to be to provide HUD the opportunity not to use an additional $10-billion in
purchase authority. It is, in fact, a sham.”
Hills did not commit herself to any timetable for release of the additional purchase authority. “We will watch the market and use it
as needed…,” she said.
The National Association of Home Builders also questioned why the President had waited so long to propose any program if he
thought one was necessary. At a briefing for reporters after the veto, Hills maintained that the President wanted to see what the
congressional legislation would look like in its final form. Garry Brown (R Mich.), however, conceded that the administration had
been slow in developing a formal alternative to HR 4485.
The home builders also argued that administration “inefficiencies and footdragging” were the only reasons why it would take time
to implement HR 4485. “Of course, the administration can delay the program, if it wishes,” the group said in a statement rebutting
the President's reasons for vetoing the bill. “But it can also issue a directive that red tape and unnecessary delay be eliminated.”
Supporters of HR 4485 also disputed the administration's estimates of the bill's cost. They pointed out that the bill would stimulate
new production and result in a net increase in tax revenues.
Veto Sustained
Short 16 votes needed to reach the required two-thirds majority, the House June 25, by a 268-157 vote, sustained the
President's veto of HR 4485. It was the fourth presidential veto the House had upheld in 1975, leaving intact the record of
unsuccessful override attempts by the 94th Congress.
Smarting from their earlier failures to enact their party's anti-recessionary legislation over President Ford's vetoes, the Democratic
leadership made an all-out effort to get every possible vote. Housing and labor groups also lobbied heavily for an override. (Vote
2/8/10 1:57 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 22 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…on=print&time=1265655392929&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
leadership made an all-out effort to get every possible vote. Housing and labor groups also lobbied heavily for an override. (Vote
259, p. 82-H)
But the opposition of Thomas L. Ashley (D Ohio), a leading congressional expert in housing affairs, frustrated party unity. Working
with two other Democrats and Garry Brown (R Mich.), Ashley secured some Democratic support for an alternative housing
measure (HR 8095) designed to win White House approval. Thirty-five Democrats voted to sustain the veto. (Strategy, lobbying,
box, following page; vote analysis, box, this page)
Immediately after the House upheld the veto, the Senate began work on a new emergency housing bill tailored to meet most of
the President's objections to HR 4485. HR 4485 would have authorized three new subsidy programs for middle-income
homebuyers in an attempt to stimulate new housing construction and set up a federal loan program for jobless homeowners
unable to meet mortgage payments.
Democrats had become increasingly bitter about President Ford's liberal use of his veto power. House Majority Leader Thomas P.
O'Neill Jr. (D Mass.) dubbed the President “King Veto” June 20, complaining that he was giving the people “a rosy runaround”
with his predictions of a “rosy turnaround” in the economy.
After Ford vetoed the housing bill June 24, Speaker Carl Albert (D Okla.) conceded that the House did not have the votes to
override and he assailed the President's record. “It's a jobs bill, and the President is building the most monumental record of anti-
jobs vetoes in the history of the Congress,” Albert said.
Floor Debate
Debate before the vote was spirited, marked by frequent applause and hisses. Partisan attacks all but overshadowed discussion
of the merits of the bill.
“The President has designated Pennsylvania Avenue as a one-way street with veto barricades against the actions, in every
instance, of the overwhelming majority of the representatives of the United States,” Albert charged.
“I say that the President does want confrontation,” added Wayne L. Hays (D Ohio). “I say he has become political, and he thinks
vetoes are going to re-elect him. That is the answer to it, and there is no other answer.”
Brown countered that the Democrats had done “darned little” to cooperate with the President, while John B. Anderson (R Ill.)
suggested that some Democrats were attempting to turn override votes into “a test of our political machismo or manhood.”
Minority Leader John J. Rhodes (Ariz.) also maintained that the President had tried very hard to compromise with Congress, only
to have his suggestions immediately rebuffed by the Democratic leadership. “The President of the United States has done his
very best to make Pennsylvania Avenue a two-way street,” he argued.
Not so, retorted John H. Dent (D Pa.), because the President was asking Congress to abdicate as well as cooperate. “The
President has his prerogatives and the Congress has its prerogatives,” Dent complained. “By right of the veto he has made this
Congress into a minority-ruled Congress.”
Dent also objected to being asked to support the Ashley bill just because the President would sign it.
“…The gentleman from Pennsylvania seems to feel that there is something evil in sending a bill down to the President that he will
sign,” Rhodes responded. “…It seems to me that the evil thing is for this body to continue in a stalemate which does not serve
the American people's best interests.”
Substantive Arguments
Reuss and several other Democrats concentrated on the substantive arguments for the bill, while questioning whether the
President's proposals would ever be put into effect.
“Since the administration has been claiming for months that these programs are not needed, it is not difficult to foresee the
scenario ahead,” Reuss contended. “Flummox Congress out of overriding the veto, pass the nothing legislation the administration
has recommended, and then sit tight and do nothing!”
Reuss also questioned how the President planned to create any new jobs, given his vetoes of the emergency jobs appropriations
bill and HR 4485. “The President has vetoed the emergency bill to provide jobs in the public sector. Now he vetoes the housing
bill to provide jobs in the private sector,” Reuss complained. “Where are jobs to be found?”
But Ashley and the two other Democrats who worked with him to gather support for the alternative bill—Thomas M. Rees (Calif.)
and Robert G. Stephens Jr. (Ga.)—maintained that it was time to stop the partisan wrangling and get on with new legislation that
the President would sign.
“It disturbs me to take a position contrary to that of my party, but it would disturb me more to follow a course of action purely for
the sake…of political considerations, a course of action that I have consistently objected to and strenuously opposed,” Ashley
said.
Ashley repeated his objections to some of the Senate-passed provisions of the bill that had been accepted by conferees, such as
a new $1,000 cash grant program to help middle-income homebuyers meet housing down payment costs. He argued that his bill
would meet the Democrats' January goals without loading it down with miscellaneous provisions that should be handled
separately.
2/8/10 1:57 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 23 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…on=print&time=1265655392929&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
Stephens maintained that House members who found HR 4485 a bad bill the first time should oppose it regardless of whether
they were Republicans or Democrats. “Just because the President vetoes a bill is not going to make that bill any better than it
was…,” he argued.
Calling HR 4485 excessive, Rees also defended the Ashley bill, noting that it would subsidize interest rates for “Mr. and Mrs.
America” by as much as 2 per cent below market levels.
But Richard L. Ottinger (D N.Y.) accused Ashley, Stephens and Rees of pushing their own personal preference too far. “Rather
than act as spoilers on this bill because of their failure to get their way, those who agree with the preferences of these gentlemen
should recognize that the majority of the House did not agree with them and seek in the future legislation to obtain what they
want,” he argued.
O'Neill ended debate by summing up the basic issue at hand. “What is the veto all about? It is a philosophical disagreement on
how we should run the economy of this nation…,” he concluded. “I urge all my colleagues to vote to get this country moving
again. Vote to override.”
Features
Committee Vote
Following is the 25-11 vote by which the House Banking, Currency and Housing Committee ordered reported HR 4485, to
authorize emergency assistance to the housing industry and middle-income homebuyers.
Aye (25): Democrats Reuss (Wis.), Patman (Texas), Barrett (Pa.), Ashley (Ohio), Stephens (Ga.), St Germain (R.I.), Gonzalez
(Texas), Minish (N.J.), Annunzio (Ill.), Rees (Calif.), Hanley (N.Y.), Mitchell (Md.), Boggs (La.), Neal (N.C.), Blanchard (Mich.),
Maguire (N.J.), Ford (Tenn.), Hubbard (Ky.), Spellman (Md.), AuCoin (Ore.), Tsongas (Mass.), Derrick (S.C.), Hayes (Ind.) and
Hannaford (Calif.). Republican McKinney (Conn.).
Nay (11): Republicans Johnson (Pa.), Stanton (Ohio), Brown (Mich.), Wylie (Ohio), Rousselot (Calif.), Conlan (Ariz.), Schulze
(Pa.), Gradison (Ohio), Hyde (Ill.), Kelly (Fla.) and Grassley (Iowa).
Not Voting (7): Democrats Sullivan (Mo.), Moorhead (Pa.), Fauntroy (Del. D.C.), Patterson (Calif.) [voted present], and LaFalce
(N.Y.). Republicans Hansen (Idaho) and Fenwick (N.J.).
Family Eligibility
Families with a broad range of incomes would be eligible for mortgage interest subsidies under HR 4485 as passed by the
House. The bill would limit assistance to families having an income of up to 120 per cent of the median family income for a
particular area. The following chart lists the maximum incomes families could earn in the 20 largest metropolitan areas and
remain eligible for the subsidies. Income ceilings would be adjusted for larger and smaller families.
New York City, N.Y. $16,556
Los Angeles - Long Beach, Calif. 17,022
Chicago, III. 19,109
Philadelphia, Pa. - N.J. 17,399
Detroit, Mich. 19,162
San Francisco-Oakland, Calif. 18,666
Washington, D.C.-Md.-Va. 21,085
Boston, Mass. 18,534
Nassau-Suffolk, N.Y. 16,585
St. Louis, Mo.-III. 16,950
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15,586
Dallas-Fort Worth, Texas 16,480
Baltimore, Md. 17,136
Cleveland, Ohio 17,839
Newark, N.J. 20,106
Houston, Texas 15,978
Minneapolis-St. Paul, Minn. 18,990
Atlanta, Ga. 17,056
Seattle-Everett, Wash. 17,785
Anaheim-Santa Ana-Garden Grove, Calif. 18,712
Middle Income Housing
Inflation, the energy crisis and a decline in housing production have resulted in a sharp drop in the number of middle income
families able to afford homes, according to a study released April 28 by the Joint Economic Committee. The study was prepared
by the Congressional Research Service of the Library of Congress.
2/8/10 1:57 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 24 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…on=print&time=1265655392929&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
“Rising home costs, high interest rates and soaring utility bills have combined to price many middle-income families out of the
single-family housing market,” said Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey (D Minn.), joint committee chairman. In addition, Humphrey noted,
new production of homes within the financial reach of middle-income families had fallen in the past 18 months along with the
over-all decline in new housing starts.
The study estimated that the average monthly expense required for a new home at the median sales price had increased to $486
in 1974 from $397 in 1973. If families devoted one-quarter of their income to housing expenses, it concluded, only an estimated
15 per cent of all American families could afford new homes, compared to 21.5 per cent in 1973.
The average monthly expense for an older existing home reached $441 in 1974, the study said, compared to $348 in 1973. Only
an estimated 20 per cent of all families had the minimum income needed to support these payments, the study found, compared
to 29.6 per cent in 1973. Higher interest rates and utility bills were a major factor in the increases.
Counter Strategy of Dissident Democrats Hurts Lobby Efforts for Successful Override
Although House Democratic sponsors of the emergency housing bill knew all along that it would be an uphill fight to secure the
votes needed to override the President's veto, a countermove by three Democrats opposed to the bill made their task more
difficult. The two major groups lobbying for an override, the National Association of Home Builders and the AFL-CIO, also found
that the dissident Democrats' efforts hurt prospects of getting vital votes from southern Democrats.
Ashley Countermove
Thomas L. Ashley (D Ohio), considered one of the leading housing experts in the House, orchestrated the countermove with
Thomas M. Rees (D Calif.) and Robert G. Stephens Jr. (D Ga.). All three were members of the Banking, Currency and Housing
Committee who voted against the conference version of the bill. Garry Brown (Mich.), ranking Republican on the Banking
Committee's Housing Subcommittee, gathered Republican support for the countermove, and both Ashley and Brown worked
closely with the White House.
Essentially, their strategy was to line up support behind an alternative housing proposal that would be acceptable to the
President. They needed time to develop the alternative and solidify support, and the President gave it to them. “I am satisfied that
he is going to hold off the veto until we can come up with an alternative,” Brown said a week before the President vetoed the bill
June 24.
After putting the alternative bill together in a day or two, Ashley said they concentrated initially on the 44 Democrats who voted
against the conference version. Rees sought support from those from the western states, Stephens asked the southerners for
their backing and Ashley contacted those from northern states.
Those working for an override were particularly concerned about Stephens because 26 of the 44 Democrats opposing the
conference version were from the South. “Stephens was a big hurt,” conceded an aide to William S. Moorhead (D Pa.), a key
Banking Committee sponsor of the emergency bill.
When the Democrats “go home, they're going to find out people don't care a good goddam about intermural battles between the White House and Congress.”  
—Rep. Thomas L. Ashley  (D Ohio)
Rationale
Ashley promoted his countermove on grounds that it was more important to get a bill signed than to prove the Democrats could
override a presidential veto after failing to do so three times earlier in 1975.
“When they [the Democrats] go home, they're going to find out people don't care a good goddam about intermural battles
between the White House and Congress,” he argued. “…They care about getting from point A to point B and then from point B to
point C.”
Ashley also maintained that there was no point in having a confrontation if compromise was possible. “I don't think it's good
tactics to fight when you don't have to fight,” he insisted. “We fight every time whether we have to or not.”
On substantive grounds, Ashley opposed Senate-passed provisions accepted by House conferees setting up a $1,000 cash grant
program for housing down payment costs and those making miscellaneous changes in the 1974 omnibus housing act. He
accused House conferees, led by Banking Committee Chairman Henry S. Reuss (D Wis.), of caving in to the Senate, but insisted
he had no personal quarrel with Reuss.
2/8/10 1:57 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 25 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…on=print&time=1265655392929&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
Some staff aides and lobbyists suggested otherwise, however, maintaining that Ashley did not get along at all with Reuss. Their
implication was that Ashley wanted to undermine the chairman's bill.
Effects
By June 23, the Ashley bill had more than 50 Democratic cosponsors, but those lobbying for an override were confident that
many of them would vote to override the veto. “They've told me it's a fallback position,” said AFL-CIO lobbyist Ray Denison.
Nevertheless, those working for an override vote felt that the countermove did disrupt efforts to pull the Democrats together to a
uniform position. Majority Leader Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. (D Mass.) called Ashley the afternoon before the bill's introduction June 20,
Ashley said, to ask him to hold up the bill until after the veto. “It goes in noon tomorrow,” Ashley told O'Neill flatly in a reporter's
presence.
Lobbying for an Override
Those working for an override vote, including the House Democratic leadership, labor, the homebuilders and Banking Committee
sponsors, concentrated to some extent on turning around the Democrats who voted against the conference version and holding
on to at least some of the 28 Republicans who voted for the conference bill. Initially, they also were hopeful that they might
persuade some Democrats opposed to the bill not to vote at all, thus reducing the number of votes needed to override.
Although the leadership and the homebuilders in particular made strenuous efforts to secure votes, they confronted some
problems. One was the fact that some fairly liberal northern Democrats who voted against the conference report were undecided
about the override until fairly late in the game. “I understand the whip meeting yesterday (June 23) produced a lot of maybes,
unsures and undecideds,” said an aide to one regional Democratic whip.
‘Hearing a Bit’
One of these undecided northern Democrats was Robert N. Giaimo (Conn.), a party whip for four New England states. An aide
said June 20 that Giaimo had been “hearing a bit” from the leadership, but that he had some doubts about the substantive
provisions of the bill.
An aide to another northern Democrat who was undecided as of June 20, Agriculture Committee Chairman Thomas S. Foley
(Wash.), pointed out that the confrontation over the housing bill would not be the last. “He's somewhat sensitive about having
government by veto,” the aide said, “especially because we can anticipate any number of vetoes coming along the line.” A food
stamp revision bill that Foley's committee planned to prepare was one possible veto candidate, the aide noted.
Lobbyists also ran into some less unusual problems with fiscally conservative southern Democrats who traditionally had objected
to major housing legislation. They anticipated that the seven Texas Democrats who voted against the conference bill, including
Appropriations Committee Chairman George Mahon, would be hard to budge. “We're trying to convince them it's a jobs bill,” said
Robert J. Cushman, a lobbyist for the National Association of Home Builders. (Sponsors argued that the measure would create
800,000 new jobs.) Some of the Texas Democrats had voted June 4 to override the President's veto of an emergency jobs
appropriations bill.
“Things have become so unraveled up here. People are saying things like, ‘Well, I voted with you twice [on overrides], so I guess
I better vote against you this time.’ You'd think these were the only votes.”
—AFL-CIO lobbyist Ray Denison
Denison also suggested that the number of recent vetoes and override attempts caused confusion. “Things have become so
unraveled up there,” he said. “People are saying things like ‘Well, I voted with you twice [on overrides], so I guess I better vote
against you this time.’ You'd think those were the only votes.”
Joined Ashley in Countermove
Other Efforts
The homebuilders, the AFL-CIO and its Building and Construction Trades Department, and a long list of other housing and civil
rights groups also called on their local members to put constituent pressure on House members for an override vote.
2/8/10 1:57 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 26 of 26http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/cqalmanac/doc…on=print&time=1265655392929&PHPSESSID=s2npaf4fmjnrvfa8k3mbd9bdt5
Denison said the AFL-CIO asked its members to begin a mail campaign two or three weeks before the override vote June 25.
The homebuilders had asked their members to urge the President to sign the bill and to contact their House members. Cushman
said that he thought phone calls from home had helped turn some votes around.
AFL-CIO President George Meany also met with the President June 23, the day before the veto, to make an unsuccessful last-
minute attempt to get Ford to sign the bill. Although he had no immediate comment, the next day Meany accused the President
of vetoing badly needed jobs and blasted the administration's economic policies.
The groups pressing for an override said that they coordinated their efforts only informally, checking to see if one particular group
or another would have more influence with specific House members.
Desire for Vote
On the eve of the vote, Albert virtually conceded that the Democrats did not have the votes to override. The homebuilders at that
point counted 254 firm votes for an override plus perhaps 10 more votes from undecided Democrats. It takes 290 votes to
override if every House member votes.
Even without the votes, both Cushman and Denison felt the override vote should go ahead as scheduled to put House members
on record. That way, Denison argued, a majority of the House, if not a two-thirds majority, would make it clear that it objected to
the President's actions and was not “buying the administration's line that the recession is over.”
Vote Analysis
The continued willingness of House Republicans to back up the President's vetoes and the refusal of some Democrats to vote for
their party's position left the House 16 votes short of the two-thirds majority needed to override the veto of the emergency
housing bill.
Of the 141 Republicans voting, all but 19 voted to sustain the veto. They were joined by 35 Democrats, 26 of them from the
South.
Even though the Democratic leadership could not muster the two-thirds majority, they came closer than they had on the 253-155
vote June 5 to adopt the conference report on the bill. The margin of approval on the conference report was 19 votes short of a
two-thirds majority. (Vote 193, p. 62-H)
Those working for an override picked up the votes of 15 members who had voted against the conference report. L. A. (Skip)
Bafalis (Fla.) was the only Republican who voted against the conference bill and to override the veto. Of the 44 Democrats who
opposed the conference report, nine northerners and five southerners voted to override the veto anyway.
On the other hand, 11 of the 28 Republicans who had voted for the conference report agreed to sustain the President's veto.
Two southern Democrats, Ike F. Andrews (N.C.) and Elliott H. Levitas (Ga.), did the same.
Of the 19 Republicans voting to override, all but Bafalis and Don H. Clausen (Calif.), who did not vote the first time, had voted for
the conference bill. Thirty of the 35 Democrats voting to sustain had opposed the conference bill. Andrews, Levitas and three
southern Democrats who did not vote the first time provided the other five votes.
Seventeen of 25 House members who did not vote on the conference report voted to override the veto. The eight members who
did not vote on the override attempt had split evenly on the vote on the conference report. Speaker Carl Albert (D Okla.), as is the
tradition, did not participate in either vote.
Document Citation
"Ford Signs Compromise Housing Legislation." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal75-1214503. Originally published
in CQ Almanac 1975 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1976). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal75-1214503 (accessed February
8, 2010).
Document ID: cqal75-1214503
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal75-1214503
© 1976, 2010, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
