7/2/09 4:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 17http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal77-1201885&type=hitlist&num=8
Urban Development
1992 Urban Aid Measures Fail Despite
Riots'  Impetus
1992 Cities Seek Help From Congress
1978 Presidential Statement: Carter
Proposal for Urban Policy
1978 Countercyclical Aid Dies; Key
Urban Program
1977 $12.5-Billion Urban Aid
Authorization Voted
1976 Aid to New York
1975 Congress Approves Loans for New
York City
1972 Rules Committee Kills Housing-
Urban Development Act
1971 Urban Development Programs
1971 Community Development:
Senate, House Hold Hearings
1969 Housing, Urban Development
1969 Congress Studies Urban
Proposals, Extends Hud Act
1968 Message to Congress: Johnson on
Cities
1967 Model Cities, Rent Supplement
Funds Cut Deeply
1967 Kennedy (N.Y.) Housing Bills
1967 54 Democratic, 9 GOP Districts
Get Model City Funds
1966 Problems of The Cities
Highlighted
1966 Housing, Demonstration Cities
Bill Enacted
1964 Housing Act Expands Existing
Programs
1961 Administration Wins Victory on
Housing Bill
Bankruptcy
$12.5-Billion Urban Aid Authorization Voted
An article from CQ Almanac 1977
Document Outline
Major Provisions
Administration Proposals
House Committee Action
House Floor Action
Senate Committee Action
Senate Floor Action
Conference Action
Final Action
Features
Congress completed action Oct. 4 on a $12.5-billion urban aid authorization
that channeled new funds to the aging cities of the Northeast and industrial
Midwest.
The bill, the Housing and Community Development Act of 1977 (HR 6655
—PL 95 - 128 ) extended the community development block grant
program—the nation's chief neighborhood revitalization effort—for three
years, through fiscal 1980, and authorized $12,450,000,000 to fund it. That
figure included $400-million to be spent annually on a new program of urban
development action grants proposed by the Carter administration to help out
those cities with the most severe problems.
As requested by the administration, the bill also provided a one-year
extension, through fiscal 1978, of major federal housing programs. Included
was a $1,159,995,000 authorization for fiscal 1978 designed to finance about
317,-000 new, rehabilitated and existing units under the Section 8 rent
subsidy program and 56,000 units of conventional public housing.
The bill also increased insurable mortgage limits and decreased downpayment
requirements for Federal Housing Administration (FHA) programs, a move
designed to encourage and aid lower-income persons in homeownership.
Although passed by the House May 11 and by the Senate June 7, the bill
was tied up in conference committee for nearly three months because of a
dispute over the formula to be used to distribute the community development
block grant funds.
As cleared by Congress, the bill provided for allocation of funds under either a
new formula that took into account age of housing, poverty and population growth lag—factors that would work to
the advantage of older cities in the Northeast and Midwest—or the existing formula, which tended to favor cities of
the western and southern regions that had growing populations. The community would receive the higher amount.
In signing the bill Oct. 12, President Carter said it would provide “a giant step forward” in improving urban living
conditions. But he criticized a provision easing restrictions on loans to property owners in flood-prone areas, which
he said would weaken the federal flood insurance program.
Major Provisions
As signed into law, the Housing and Community Development Act of 1977 (HR 6655—PL 95 - 128 ):
Title I—Community Development Amendments
Provided that “hold harmless” grants guaranteed under the 1974 Housing and Community Development Act (PL 93-383)
would phase down against the higher of amounts computed under the existing or the new formulas. (PL 93-383, 1974
Almanac p. 345)
 
7/2/09 4:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 17http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal77-1201885&type=hitlist&num=8
Authorizations. Authorized the Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary to make block grants to Indian
tribes.
Authorized up to $3.5-billion for community development block grants in fiscal 1978, $3.65-billion in fiscal 1979 and
$3.8-billion in fiscal 1980. Of that amount, the act set aside $350-million, $265-million and $250-million for fiscal years
1978, 1979 and 1980 respectively for discretionary balances available to communities not eligible for funding under the
formulas.
Authorized $100-million during each of the three years for financial settlement and, to the extent feasible, the completion
of projects and programs assisted under the old urban renewal programs consolidated by the block grants.
Authorized up to $400-million in each of the three years for urban development action grants for assisting severely
distressed cities and urban counties.
Specified that if appropriations did not cover the full authorization, the block grants would be funded first, the financial
settlement of old projects second and the action grants third.
Application Requirements. Required communities to include in their applications for block grants a summary of
housing as well as community development needs. The act also required communities to set out a program to improve
conditions for low- and moderate-income persons living or expected to live in the community, to foster neighborhood
development in order to induce higher-income persons to remain in or return to the community and to insure full
opportunity for participation by the handicapped.
Required Housing Assistance Plans to include an identification of housing stock in deteriorated condition, adequate
provision that low- and moderate-income families would have available to them the preponderance of subsidized
rehabilitated housing, and provisions to give tenants displaced as a result of housing rehabilitation reasonable
opportunity to relocate in their immediate neighborhood. The act said that where feasible communities should strive to
reclaim housing stock through a broad range of techniques by local government, the private sector or community
organizations.
Required communities to prepare and follow a written citizen participation plan which provided citizens an opportunity to
participate in the development of the block grant application.
Permitted the HUD Secretary to waive some application requirements for small communities where the application did
not involve a comprehensive community development program.
Authorized the HUD Secretary to allow states to participate in the selection process for funding discretionary grants to
localities within the state.
Authorized the HUD Secretary to make a lump sum payment of a community's grant allotment to allow the community to
establish a revolving loan fund at a private financial institution to finance rehabilitation activities. The rehabilitation
activities had to begin within 45 days of the HUD payment.
Eligible Activities. Added as activities eligible for assistance, when carried out by public or private nonprofit entities or
by minority enterprise small business investment companies, 1) property acquisition, 2) acquisition, construction,
reconstruction, rehabilitation or installation of public facilities and commercial buildings, 3) planning and 4) assistance to
local development corporations.
Allowed block grant recipients to provide financial assistance to private entities to acquire for rehabilitation and to
rehabilitate privately owned properties.
Made minority business enterprises eligible for funding under the act.
Barred the use of grant funds for local services, such as fire and police, if those services were financed by local
revenues the preceding year.
Allocation of Funds. Provided for the allocation of funds to metropolitan cities and urban counties according to the
formula under existing law or a new formula. The community would receive the higher amount. The existing formula was
based on population, housing overcrowding and poverty counted twice. The new formula was based on age of housing,
counted 2[1/2] times; poverty, counted 1 [1/2] times; and growth lag, counted once. “Age of housing” was defined as the
number of existing housing units built in 1939 or before, according to census data. “Growth lag” was defined as the
extent to which the community's population had failed to grow at the average rate for all metropolitan cities since 1960.
Provided that “hold harmless” grants guaranteed under the 1974 Housing and Community Development Act (PL 93-383)
would phase down against the higher of amounts computed under the existing or the new formulas. (PL 93-383, 1974
Almanac p. 345)
Established a dual formula system for distributing metropolitan and nonmetropolitan discretionary balances for smaller
communities on a state-by-state basis. The system would use the existing formula for metropolitan cities and urban
counties or a second formula which counted age of housing 2 [1/2] times, poverty 1 [1/2] times and population once.
Authorized the HUD Secretary to make funding commitments to smaller communities for up to three years. The
Secretary was required to give special consideration to communities presently carrying out community development
7/2/09 4:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 17http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal77-1201885&type=hitlist&num=8
Secretary was required to give special consideration to communities presently carrying out community development
programs and receiving hold harmless grants before making new commitments.
Reporting Requirements. Required the Secretary to report to Congress by Sept. 30, 1978, on the adequacy,
effectiveness and equity of the formula for distributing grant funds.
Required HUD to study and report within one year on the developmental needs of small cities and to present legislative
recommendations including alternative fund distribution formulas.
Discretionary Funds. Extended the Secretary's discretionary fund through fiscal 1980 and increased the percentage of
total formula funds to be set aside for the fund to 3 per cent from 2 per cent.
Made Indian tribes eligible for technical assistance grants from the discretionary fund.
Reduced to 15 per cent from 25 per cent the percentage of amounts set aside in the discretionary fund each year which
could be used for grants to meet community development needs caused by disasters.
Loan Guarantees. Authorized the Secretary to guarantee notes or other obligations issued by units of local government
or public agencies for financing acquisition or rehabilitation of property provided the recipient's total outstanding
obligation guaranteed was not more than three times the amount of the recipient's block grant. The total amount of
obligations guaranteed could not exceed the amount appropriated for the block grant program.
Urban Development Action Grants. Established a program of urban development action grants to severely distressed
communities to help alleviate physical and economic deterioration through neighborhood reclamation.
Limited the grants to cities and urban counties that had demonstrated results in providing housing and equal
employment opportunity for low- and moderate-income persons and members of minority groups.
Required that action grant projects be developed to take advantage of unique opportunities to attract private investment,
stimulate investment in restoration of deteriorated or abandoned housing stock or solve critical problems resulting from
population outmigration or a stagnating or declining tax base.
Required the Secretary, in determining who received the grants, to include as the primary criterion the comparative
degree of physical and economic distress among applicants. Such distress was measured by the differences in the
extent of growth lag, poverty and adjusted age of housing, defined as proportion of pre-1940 housing in a community
compared to the proportion of old housing stock in all metropolitan areas.
Directed the Secretary also to take into account, when awarding grants, impact of the proposed program on the
problems of persons of low and moderate income and minorities, the extent of financial participation by public or private
entities, extent of state assistance, extent to which the program provided an opportunity to meet local needs and the
feasibility of accomplishing the program in a timely fashion within the grant amount available.
Barred action grants designed to facilitate relocation of industrial or commercial plants from one area to another unless
the relocation would not adversely affect the unemployment or economic base of the area giving up the project.
Required citizen participation in the formulation of the action grant proposals.
Set aside at least 25 per cent of the funds available for action grants for cities under 50,000 population that were not
central cities of a standard metropolitan statistical area.
Rehabilitation Loans. Extended the Section 312 rehabilitation loan program for two years through fiscal 1979 and
authorized $60-million for fiscal 1978.
Increased the maximum Section 312 loan amount for residences to $27,000 per dwelling unit.
Planning. Authorized $75-million for fiscal 1978 for Section 701 planning grants.
Title II—Housing Authorizations
Contract Authority. Authorized $1,159,995,000 of additional annual contract authority for fiscal 1978. The authorization
was expected to assist about 157,000 new and rehabilitated units under the Section 8 rent subsidy program, about
160,000 existing Section 8 units and about 56,000 units of public housing.
Required that not less than $197,139,200 of the additional authority be made available for low-income housing projects
permanently financed by loans from state housing finance or state development agencies.
Required that not less than $120-million of the additional authority be made available for low-income housing projects
for the elderly and handicapped permanently financed by loans under Section 202.
Required that not less than $42.5-million of the additional authority be made available for modernization of low-income
housing projects.
7/2/09 4:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 17http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal77-1201885&type=hitlist&num=8
Directed the Secretary to prohibit high-rise elevator projects for families with children unless there was no practical
alternative.
Authorized an additional $685-million for operating subsidies for public housing projects.
Urban Homesteading. Increased to $15-million from $5-million the authorization for fiscal 1978 for the urban
homesteading demonstration program.
Research. Authorized $60-million for fiscal 1978 for study, research and demonstrations at HUD.
Section 236 Operating Subsidies. Authorized the Secretary to make additional monthly assistance payments to
project owners for the amount their utility costs and property taxes exceeded the initial operating expense level. Owners
accepting such payments would have to lower rents in the project.
Title III—FHA Mortgage Insurance
Program Extensions. Extended basic HUD-Federal Housing Administration (FHA) mortgage insurance and loan
programs for one year, through Sept. 30, 1978.
Extended through Sept. 30, 1978, the authority of the HUD Secretary to make special planning assistance grants to
private and public new community developers.
Insurable Amounts. Increased the maximum insurable mortgage amounts under Section 203 (b)(2) (basic home
mortgage insurance) and Section 220 (d)(3) (rehabilitation and neighborhood conservation housing insurance) to
$60,000 from $45,000 for single-family units, to $65,000 from $48,750 for two- and three-family units and to $75,000
from $56,000 for four-family units.
Increased maximum insurable mortgage amounts for Section 221 (d) (2) (housing for moderate-income and displaced
families) to $31,000 from $25,000 for single-family units, to $35,000 from $28,000 for two-family units, to $48,-600 from
$38,800 for three-family units, and to $59,400 from $47,520 for four-family units; set new limits of $36,000, $45,000,
$57,600 and $68,400 respectively in high cost areas.
Increased maximum insurable amounts under Section 222 (mortgage insurance for servicemen) and Section 234
(mortgage insurance for condominiums) to $60,000 from $45,000 for single-family units.
Increased the maximum insurable amount under Section 235 (homeownership for lower-income families) to $32,-000
from $25,000 (and to $38,000 from $29,000 for homes for five or more persons); in high cost areas the limits were
raised to $38,000 from $29,000 (and to $44,000 from $33,000 for families of five or more).
Limited to 40 per cent the number of units in a subdivision that could be insured under Section 235 except in the case of
rehabilitated units or except in urban areas where the units were part of an overall redevelopment plan.
Downpayment Requirements. Decreased down-payment requirements under Section 203, Section 220, Section 222
and Section 234 by authorizing the insurance of mortgages up to 97 per cent of the first $25,000 of appraised value plus
95  per cent of appraised value in excess of the first $25,000.
Mobile Homes, Home Improvements. Increased the loan ceiling for National Housing Act Title I mobile home loans to
$16,000 from $12,500 and to $24,000 from $20,000 for mobile homes composed of two or more modules.
Increased the ceiling for Title I property improvement loans to $15,000 from $10,000.
Increased the term of maturity for Title I home improvement loans to 15 years and 32 days from 12 years and 32 days.
The maturity term was increased to 23 years and 32 days from 15 years and 32 days in the case of a loan for a mobile
home composed of two or more modules. For a loan to finance the purchase of a mobile home and an undeveloped lot
for the home the loan maturity period was increased to 23 years and 32 days from 20 years and 32 days.
Authorized the Secretary to increase up to 40 per cent the mobile home Title I home loan ceilings in Alaska, Guam and
Hawaii.
Land Claims. Authorized the Secretary to insure under Section 203(b) mortgages in communities where widespread
foreclosures or distress sales were likely to result from temporarily adverse economic conditions due to Indian land
claims provided that 50 or more individual homeowners were defendants in land claims litigation prior to Dec. 31, 1976.
Graduated Payment Mortgages. Limited principal obligation of mortgages insured under Section 245 to 97 per cent of
the appraised value of the property unless the mortgagor was a veteran or the mortgage was to be insured under
Section 203.
Repealed a provision of existing law limiting to 1 per cent the number of graduated payment mortgages and loans that
could be insured by FHA in any fiscal year.
Title IV—Savings and Loan Lending Powers
7/2/09 4:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 17http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal77-1201885&type=hitlist&num=8
Authorized federal savings and loan associations to make line of credit construction loans up to 5 per cent of assets,
rather than 3 per cent.
Increased to $60,000 from $55,000 the limitation on real estate loans for single-family dwellings and provided that only
the excess over $60,000 would count against the 20 per cent of assets limit.
Increased to $15,000 from $10,000 the limit on property improvement loans.
Authorized federal savings and loans to make loans for farm purposes as part of the 5 per cent of assets category
allowed for nonconforming loans under existing law.
GNMA. Authorized the Secretary, to the extent feasible and consistent with stabilizing housing production, to direct the
Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) to exercise its mortgage purchase authority to promote
homeownership opportunities for moderate-income families.
Authorized the Secretary to require GNMA to use part of its mortgage purchase authority to buy mortgages executed to
finance rehabilitation or acquisition of housing in older or declining neighborhoods.
Authorized GNMA to buy a mortgage involving an original principal obligation of not to exceed $49,000 per dwelling unit
for Section 8 properties located in high cost areas. Under existing law, Section 8 housing was subject to a $42,000 limit
applicable to all units outside Alaska, Hawaii or Guam.
Authorized GNMA to buy a mortgage involving a principal residence with a sales price of up to $55,000 for Section 8
properties in high cost areas. Under existing law the limit was $52,000.
Limited GNMA purchase and commitments under Section 313 of the National Housing Act to $7.5-billion during fiscal
1978.
Extended until  Oct. 1, 1978, the authority of GNMA to buy mortgages under the Emergency Home Purchase Assistance
Act of 1974.
Title V—Rural Housing
Extended through Sept. 30, 1978, the Farmers Home Administration (FmHA) programs for low-income repair loans and
grants and domestic farm labor grants.
Authorized an additional $25-million for each of those programs, bringing the total authorization for each to $105-million
for fiscal 1978.
Extended through Sept. 30, 1978, the authority of the Secretary of Agriculture to carry out rural housing research.
Extended through Sept. 30, 1978, the authority of the Agriculture Secretary to insure rural rental housing loans, to make
and insure Section 502 single-family housing loans for low- and moderate-income families and to make mutual and self-
help housing loans and grants.
Authorized up to $10-million for fiscal 1978 for the self-help housing loan program.
Waived a Section 502 requirement that home loans contain the agreement that the borrower refinance the loan through
private credit sources.
Barred transfer of funds between the guaranteed loan and insured loan programs.
Required that loans guaranteed under Section 517 be made only to borrowers with above average incomes.
Authorized expenditures, after Oct. 1, 1977, to 1) correct defects, 2) pay owner's claims arising from defects or 3)
acquire title to a property where a newly constructed unit purchased with financial assistance from FmHA was found by
the Secretary to have structural defects. Decisions of the Secretary would not be subject to judicial review.
Authorized the Agriculture Secretary to make farm labor housing loans and grants in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands.
Made clear that Section 515 rental housing loans could be used to finance the development of congregate housing for
the elderly or handicapped.
Required that at least 60 per cent of FmHA loans made under Section 502 (single family) and Section 515 (rental)
programs benefit persons of low income.
Eliminated the preferential treatment accorded land grant colleges in security research contracts from FmHA and
provided for establishment of a research capacity within FmHA.
7/2/09 4:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 17http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal77-1201885&type=hitlist&num=8
Directed the Secretary to make rental assistance payments authorized in connection with Section 514 (farm labor
housing) and Section 515 (rental housing) projects in rural areas.
Allowed local, county and state governments to levy property taxes on property taken over by FmHA through default.
Title VI—National Urban Policy
Amended the Urban Growth and New Community Development Act of 1970 to require development of a national urban
policy and a biennial report on that policy by the President to Congress. (1970 Almanac p. 726)
Title VII—Flood Insurance
Extended through Sept. 30, 1978, the authority of HUD to enter into new contracts for flood insurance under the national
flood insurance program, and extended for the same period the emergency flood insurance program.
Authorized up to $108-million for fiscal 1978 for flood insurance studies and surveys.
Repealed a provision of existing law that prohibited federally insured private lending institutions from making loans to
property-owners in HUD-designated flood-prone areas that did not participate in the federal flood insurance program.
Required the lending institutions to notify loan recipients that they would not be eligible for federal disaster relief and that
the federal government would not bail out individuals who undertook development in flood-prone areas without adequate
flood-proofing measures.
Increased the ceiling of optional flood insurance coverage, at nonsubsidized actuarial rates, on residential structures
from $35,000 for single-family and $100,000 for multiple unit dwellings to $150,000 and increased content coverage to
$50,000 from $10,000.
Increased optional structure and content coverage at nonsubsidized actuarial rates for small business properties to
$250,000 (plus $200,000 for each small business occupant). Coverage would be allocated among occupants according
to rules prescribed by the Secretary and total coverage for the structure itself could not exceed $250,000.
Retained the authority of the HUD Secretary to buy property covered by flood insurance where the insured property was
damaged substantially beyond repair by a flood.
Gave the Secretary additional authority to buy damaged property if the property 1) had incurred significant flood damage
at least three times during five years and each time the average cost of repair was equal to or more than the value of
the structure at the time of the flood, or 2) had been damaged as a result of a single incident and existing law precluded
its repair or permitted its repair only at significantly increased cost.
Authorized the HUD Secretary to make 2 per cent loans to owners of single-family dwellings in the most severe flood
areas so they could elevate their homes. The loans would be authorized in cases where the property had suffered
damage and the Secretary deemed its repair necessary to meet elevation standards. The act authorized $4.5-million to
implement the provision.
Directed the Secretary to reimburse individuals and communities for the expenses of surveying or engineering in
connection with appeals of the Secretary's determination of flood-prone communities. The act authorized up to
$250,000 for appeals of flood elevation levels and $250,000 for appeals of flood-prone community designation.
Title VIII—Community Reinvestment
Directed federal financial supervisory agencies, in examining financial institutions, to assess a lending institution's record
in meeting the credit needs of “its entire community including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods,” consistent
with safe and sound operations, and to take that record into account in evaluating the institution's application for a
deposit facility (branch).
Provided that the provisions of Title VIII would not go into effect until  390 days after the enactment of the act.
Title IX—Miscellaneous
Indian and Alaska Native Programs. Created in HUD a Special Assistant for Indian and Alaska Native Programs
responsible for coordinating all housing and community development programs related to those groups.
Required the HUD Secretary to submit to Congress by Dec. 1 of each year a report describing the actions of the special
assistant, estimating the cost of his activities for the coming years, outlining the conditions of Indian and Alaska native
housing and making legislative recommendations.
Mobile Homes. Exempted from coverage under the National Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards Act of
1974 structures certified by the manufacturer to be designed only for installation on a site-built permanent foundation
and manufactured to comply with a nationally recognized or equivalent local model building code, with a state or local
modular building code equivalent to site-built housing or with FHA minimum property standards.
7/2/09 4:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 17http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal77-1201885&type=hitlist&num=8
Counseling. Extended HUD's authority to provide homeownership counseling services to owners of single-family units.
Existing law limited such counseling to persons insured under the Section 235 program.
Prototype Costs. Directed the Secretary to prepare and publish annually, beginning in calendar year 1979, prototype
housing costs for one- to four-family dwelling units for each housing market area in the United States.
Administration Proposals
Patricia Roberts Harris, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, presented the Carter administration's
program to Congress Feb. 24. In testimony before the Housing and Community Development Subcommittee of the
House Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs Committee, Harris called for a three-year extension of the community
development block grant program, as well as substantial increases in federal housing programs.
Block Grant Program
Harris requested $4-billion in fiscal 1978 appropriations for the block grant program, $750-million over the existing
funding level and $500-million more than the Ford administration had proposed.
She also proposed increasing funding for the program to $4.15-billion in fiscal 1979 and to $4.3-billion in fiscal
1980.
To focus the additional money on the areas HUD pledged to aid, Harris called for:
A change in the formula by which the money was doled out to cities and counties.
Special attention to the needs of small cities.
Financial closeout of the old categorical programs which the block grants combined.
A $400-million “action grant” program designed to enable cities to take advantage of coordinated economic and
community development opportunities.
Background
Created by the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (PL 93-383), the block grant program lumped 10
old categorical urban development programs into a single grant distributed to cities and counties according to a
needs formula based on population, overcrowded housing and the extent of poverty. The money had to be spent on
programs that would give maximum benefit to low- or moderate-income families or aid in the prevention or
elimination of slums or urban blight. (PL 93-383, 1974 Almanac p. 345)
The funds could be used for such projects as land acquisition, housing code enforcement, historic preservation,
slum clearance and renewal, and construction or improvement of facilities for neighborhoods, senior citizens,
parking, street lighting, solid waste disposal and recreation. The law required that in their applications communities
seeking the funds identify community development needs and their program for meeting them, outline a housing
assistance program, show conformance with civil rights acts and assure that citizens would participate in putting
together the application.
Congress authorized $8.6-billion for the program over three years. Eligible communities were cities or twin cities
with populations above 50,000 and urban counties with populations, excluding cities, of at least 200,000 which were
authorized by state law to carry out housing and community development programs. Eighty per cent of the funds
were to go to standard metropolitan statistical areas (SMSAs) and 20 per cent to rural, non-SMSA areas.
In addition, in fiscal 1975–77 localities were guaranteed to receive at least the average annual (“hold harmless”)
amount they had received in fiscal 1968–72 under the old categorical grant programs. In fiscal 1975 they were
entitled to one-third of the formula amount or the hold harmless amount. In fiscal 1976 they could receive two-thirds
of the formula grant or the hold harmless amount, and in fiscal 1977 they were entitled to either the full formula or
hold harmless amount. But the law specified that in fiscal 1978–80, the hold harmless amount would be phased
down by thirds to the formula level.
Formula Revision
The existing formula—based on population, amount of housing overcrowding and poverty, weighted twice—tended
to favor cities of the western and southern regions of the country, studies had shown. Critics of it noted that those
cities often were not so needy as their aging counterparts in the Northeast and Midwest which were losing
population.
If the formula were not changed funds would, in effect, flow from the older cities, as their hold harmless entitlements
were phased down, to newer communities. Among the cities that would lose money under the existing formula if
there were no hold harmless provision were Boston, Charlotte, Detroit, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Philadelphia,
Milwaukee, Atlanta, Minneapolis, St. Louis, Kansas City and Newark. Among those that would gain were Dallas,
7/2/09 4:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 17http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal77-1201885&type=hitlist&num=8
Milwaukee, Atlanta, Minneapolis, St. Louis, Kansas City and Newark. Among those that would gain were Dallas,
Memphis and Houston.
In some cases, the differences would be staggering. In fiscal 1977, Washington, D.C., was entitled to a hold
harmless amount of $40.9-million. Under the formula it would receive only $15.8-million. The funding to Philadelphia
would go from $60.8-million under hold harmless to $30.1-million if only the formula were used, according to figures
supplied by HUD. On the other hand, Dallas' fiscal 1976 payment was $13.3-million under the formula, but would
have been only $2.6-million under hold harmless. In Memphis, the formula amount was $13.3-million compared to
$6-million under hold harmless.
To improve the equity of the block grant program, Harris proposed a dual formula approach. “It targets greater funds
to those needy cities we especially want to reach while not taking away from a city's current formula allocation,” she
said.
A city would receive the larger of amounts computed under the existing formula or under a new formula proposed
by Harris.
The new formula would use age of housing weighted 50 per cent, poverty weighted 30 per cent and growth lag
weighted 20 per cent. Age of housing referred to the number of existing units built in 1939 or earlier. Harris defined
growth lag as the extent to which a city's population growth rate between 1960 and 1973 fell short of the average
population growth rate of all metropolitan cities during the same period.
“This factor further targets resources to not only major central cities which are losing population, but also to central
cities and older suburban cities where growth has slowed or declined substantially,” she said.
Action Grants
Harris proposed earmarking $400-million of the block grant funds over each of the next three fiscal years for urban
community development action grants. As proposed, the program would enable cities to react quickly to take
advantage of specific investment opportunities and market conditions as they arose, she said. A special thrust of the
program would be to stimulate new and increased private investment.
The grants would make it possible, Harris said, for severely distressed cities to alleviate physical and economic
deterioration through:
Specific economic development activities in areas of population outmigration and stagnating or declining tax base.
Reclamation projects in neighborhoods that exhibit excessive housing abandonment or deterioration.
Harris said the grants would be restricted to cities that had successfully provided housing for low- and moderate-
income persons. Other eligibility measurements would be the condition of the applicant's housing stock, tax base,
median income levels, jobs lost and unemployment exceeding the national average.
Housing Programs
Rental Subsidies, Public Housing
With the goal of providing 400,000 units of housing for low-income persons in fiscal 1978, Harris proposed additional
annual contract authority of just over $1.2-billion. Her proposal contemplated 344,000 new, rehabilitated and existing
units under the Section 8 rental subsidy program, including 20,000 units to be provided under the auspices of state
housing finance agencies. The remainder of the 400,-000 units would be conventional public housing.
The Harris proposal also called for $35-million for public housing modernization aimed primarily at assisting local
housing authorities in capital improvements projects to save energy and correct local health and safety code
violations.
The Secretary also asked for $665-million for public housing operating subsidies. About $13-million of that would go
for exceptionally high utility costs incurred during the current winter.
In an earlier appearance before the panel Feb. 22, Harris asked for an additional $378-million in contract authority
for Section 8 for fiscal 1977 so that 400,000 units of assisted housing also would be available that year. (Fiscal 1977
housing authorization, p. 122)
The Section 8 program, created in its existing form by the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (PL
93-383), provided for government subsidies of the rent of low-income persons. Eligibility was limited to families with
income of up to 80 per cent of the median family income of a particular area. The law also required that at least 30
per cent of the families have income not exceeding 50 per cent of an area's median family income.
The HUD Secretary was authorized to enter into up to 40-year contracts with public housing agencies or 20-year
contracts with private developers who agreed to provide newly constructed, rehabilitated or adequate existing rental
housing for participants in the program. The Secretary could make rental assistance payments for up to 100 per
cent of the units in any one project, but was allowed to give preference to applicants limiting assisted units to 20 per
cent per project if the project were not designed for the elderly or had more than 50 units.
Participating families were required to contribute not less than 15 per cent nor more than 25 per cent of their total
7/2/09 4:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 9 of 17http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal77-1201885&type=hitlist&num=8
Participating families were required to contribute not less than 15 per cent nor more than 25 per cent of their total
income to rent, which was not to exceed by more than 10 per cent the fair market rent as established by HUD. The
government made up the difference between the family's required rental share and the actual rental price. (1974
Almanac p. 345)
The 40-year-old government-owned public housing program, suspended by the Nixon administration in 1973 but
revived by Congress in 1976, was designed to create decent housing for the poor. Under the latest revisions,
adopted in the 1974 housing act, tenants were required to pay a minimum rent equal to 5 per cent of their gross
income or the amount of their welfare assistance payment earmarked for rent. Required increases in rent were
limited to $5 every six months. (1976 revival, 1976 Almanac p. 343)
Twenty per cent of all new public housing units was earmarked for families with income below 50 per cent of the
median income in an area. Public housing agencies were required to establish 1) tenant selection criteria to assure
an income mix in the projects, 2) procedures for prompt rent payments and evictions for nonpayment, 3) effective
tenant-management relationships to assure tenant safety and adequate project maintenance and 4) viable
homeownership opportunities.
Homeownership Aid
Harris sought to increase the maximum limits on amounts of mortgage loans eligible for subsidies under the Section
235 homeownership program for low-income families. She proposed raising the limits from $25,000 to $31,000 and
from $29,000 to $36,000 in high cost areas. The maximum provided for families of five or more persons would go
from $29,000 to $36,000 and from $33,000 to $42,-000 in high cost areas. The existing limits were adopted in 1976.
(1976 Almanac p. 343)
The Section 235 program authorized HUD to subsidize the interest on home mortgages down to 5 per cent from the
market rate, which normally is substantially higher. In 1976, eligibility was extended to families with income up to 
95  per cent of the median income for a particular area. Previously, the income limit was 80 per cent of median
area income.
Designed to enable low-income families to own a home, the program originally subsidized mortgages down to 1 per
cent. However, in some areas it failed miserably, with HUD winding up as the owner of abandoned, dilapidated
properties.
Mortgage Insurance
Harris sought to raise from $45,000 to $60,000 the maximum insurable mortgage amounts on several programs
covering single-family units and to lower the downpayment requirements for mortgage amounts in excess of
$25,000. The programs affected would be Section 203 (basic home mortgage insurance), Section 222 (mortgage
insurance for servicemen) and Section 234 (mortgage insurance for condominiums).
Existing mortgage limits under the affected Federal Housing Administration (FHA) programs were unrealistic, Harris
said. She noted that while the FHA maximum mortgage amount had increased 50 per cent (to $45,000) since 1966,
the median price of a new home had increased about 68 per cent (to $47,000) between 1966 and 1976.
The proposed change in the downpayment requirements “is considered necessary to afford many middle-income
families the opportunity to purchase their own homes,” she said.
Rehabilitation Loans
The administration sought no new appropriation for Section 312 rehabilitation loans in fiscal 1978 because $70-
million would be available in carryover funds, Harris said. She pledged to improve the program and strengthen its
management “so it can supplement and support block grant housing rehabilitation efforts.”
The program provided 3 per cent loans for rehabilitation of residential and business properties to residents of areas
designated in an area's community development block grant application.
Comprehensive Planning
The Secretary proposed a revision of the Section 701 planning grant program which would authorize $62.5-million
for it, provide increased funding for metropolitan and non-metropolitan area-wide planning organizations, continue
direct funding for states and provide assistance to small communities through programs administered by the states.
She said large cities and urban counties would not receive funding under the program because the community
development block grants would meet the need.
The 1974 Housing and Community Development Act required grant recipients to use the money for land use and
housing planning activities.
‘Ginny Mae’ Tandem Program
The administration did not include any funding for the Government National Mortgage Association (Ginny Mae)
Tandem Plan in its fiscal 1978 budget request.
Under the plan, the association was authorized to buy mortgage loans at interest rates not exceeding 7.5 per cent
during periods when the housing industry was in trouble. The Emergency Home Purchase Assistance Act of 1974
7/2/09 4:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 10 of 17http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal77-1201885&type=hitlist&num=8
during periods when the housing industry was in trouble. The Emergency Home Purchase Assistance Act of 1974
authorized Ginny Mae to purchase conventional mortgages as well as those insured by the FHA or guaranteed by
the Veterans Administration (VA). (1974 Almanac p. 364)
House Committee Action
The House Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs Committee reported HR 6655 (H Rept 95 –236) May 2.
After 13 days of markup by the committee and its Housing and Development Subcommittee, the bill emerged
generally as the administration wanted it. The committee approved the bill April 28 by a 30–3 vote.
Block Grants
The committee endorsed the dual formula concept proposed by the administration, noting that the new formula
would account for the physical aspects of community development need, which it said the existing formula failed to
do.
The “age of housing” factor, which studies had shown was “by far the best indicator of physical blight and
development need,” also correlated highly with problems of neighborhood or community maintenance, with high tax
effort and with a weakened local tax base, the report said.
That factor, coupled with “growth lag” in the new formula, “insures that those metropolitan cities with the most
severe physical, social and fiscal problems receive adequate assistance,” the committee said.
Housing
The committee noted HUD's failure in recent years to translate housing proposed under Section 8 to actual
occupied units, and expressed concern about the increasing costs of Section 8 construction.
The committee said it anticipated 57 per cent of Section 8 units would be new construction or substantial
rehabilitation and 43 per cent existing housing.
House Floor Action
The House passed the bill by a 369–20 vote May 11 after three days of debate and the adoption of numerous floor
amendments. (Vote 203, p. 62-H)
Controversy centered on an amendment to remove from the bill the second of two formulas that communities could
use to establish the size of their allotment under the block grant program. Proponents argued that the second
formula favored the older cities of the East and Midwest at the expense of the so-called Sun Belt area of the West
and South.
Major Floor Amendments
Dual Formula
The regional dispute developed over an amendment by Mark W. Hannaford and Jerry M. Patterson, both California
Democrats, which sought to strike the new block grant formula from the bill. It was defeated 149–261, with the vote
breaking down largely along sectional lines. (Vote 199, p. 62-H; regional split, box, p. 133)
Hannaford charged that the new formula created “great distortions” and that the taxpayers of the South and West
were, in effect, being taxed to support the revitalization of cities such as Newark and Detroit.
To illustrate his concern, Hannaford said the community development entitlement for Los Angeles in 1977 was $17
per capita compared to $20 per capita in Detroit, which he described as “an acceptable inequity.” But with the new
formula, the per capita allotment to Los Angeles would be $19 in fiscal 1978 compared to $42.49 in Detroit. “This is
an absolutely unacceptable inequity,” he said.
According to figures supplied by HUD, 240 of the 537 existing entitlement communities would gain through the use
of the dual formula. Of those, 103 were in the Northeast, 86 in the North Central states, 31 in the South and 20 in
the West. (Effect on cities, box, p. 135)
“The real issue here is: Do we want to address poverty or do we want to address old houses?” Patterson said. “…
[P]oor people live throughout the United States. They are not entirely contained within older cities.”
However, Les AuCoin (D Ore.), an opponent of the amendment, argued that no section of the country would be hurt
by the bill and that “per capita arguments” about funding levels were invalid because the program was not intended
to provide welfare or revenue sharing.
“What is going to happen under this bill is what should have happened if we had had the vision in Congress three
years ago—funds are going to go where the need is, where the blight is, where the physical decay is,” he said.
Small Cities
7/2/09 4:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 11 of 17http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal77-1201885&type=hitlist&num=8
Another major floor fight developed over an amendment by Charles E. Grassley (R Iowa) to earmark 25 per cent of
the funds available for urban development action grants for cities under 50,000 population which were not central
cities in a standard metropolitan statistical area (SMSA).
Proponents argued that smaller cities were not equipped to compete against larger cities because they did not have
the same technical expertise available to them. “Without this amendment,” said Joe Skubitz (R Kan.), “rural America
has about as much chance of getting money as a one-legged man has of winning a foot race.”
Thomas L. Ashley (D Ohio), chairman of the Housing and Community Development Subcommittee and floor manager
for the bill, opposed the amendment. He argued that HUD Secretary Harris had assured the committee that smaller
communities would get equal treatment with big cities in competing for the grants.
The amendment was adopted 279–129. (Vote 201, p. 62-H)
Flood Insurance Program
A seventh title was added to the bill by an amendment by Gene Taylor (R Mo.), as amended by Richard H. Ichord (D
Mo.). Their amendment removed the prohibition on federally insured private lending institutions from making loans to
property owners in HUD-designated flood-prone areas which were not participants in the federal flood insurance
program. The amendment required the institution to notify the recipient that he would not be eligible for federal
disaster relief and that the federal government could not bail out individuals who undertook development in flood-
prone areas without adequate flood-proofing measures.
Ichord called the flood insurance program “one of the worst examples of coercive and inequitable federal land use
controls ever devised” because of the stringent regulations imposed on those who did not enroll.
Ashley opposed the amendment, arguing that a voluntary program without lending prohibitions would not accomplish
the purpose of the flood insurance program—to reduce federal disaster relief costs.
The amendment was adopted 220–169. (Vote 202, p. 62-H)
Senate Committee Action
The Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affaire Committee reported its version of the bill May 16 (S 1523—S Rept 
95 –175). The Senate version targeted substantially more aid to aging cities than the House-passed bill.
To pay for the increased grants to older cities, the Senate committee bill would take funds from the proposed $400-
million Carter administration plan for urban development action grants which would provide one-time payments to
cities to cure severe urban ills.
The Senate bill also included a provision to require financial institutions to meet the credit needs of the areas in
which they were chartered.
Block Grants
The Senate committee bill included the two formulas which were part of the House bill—the one in existing law and
the one proposed by Harris—plus a third formula proposed by Sen. Harrison A. Williams Jr. (D N.J.).
The Williams formula, cosponsored in committee by ranking Republican Edward W. Brooke (Mass.), used the same
factors in the same proportions as the Harris formula. But in addition to counting the amount of pre-1940 housing, it
measured the proportion of pre-1940 housing in the community compared to the proportion of old housing stock in
all metropolitan areas.
The national average was about 38 per cent pre-1940 housing, according to an aide to Williams. A city would not
benefit from the “impaction” adjustment in the Williams formula unless it had a higher than average concentration of
older housing. Among the cities that would benefit were some of those considered among the most needy by HUD,
such as Newark, Boston, St. Louis and Cleveland.
However, cities considered the least needy by HUD would not lose funds under the Senate committee bill.
Communities like Houston, Oklahoma City, Nashville, Albuquerque, Omaha, San Diego and Phoenix would get the
same grants using any of the three formulas in fiscal 1980.
The committee endorsed the second formula proposed by Harris, saying that age of housing is the “best single
indicator” of physical development need and is strongly related to a weakening tax base, a high rate of tax effort and
other factors that reflect urban distress. That factor coupled with growth lag “generally ensures that metropolitan
cities with the most severe physical, social and fiscal problems will receive funding that is more in accordance with
their needs” than would be provided through the existing law formula, the report said.
But the committee added that the Harris formula “did not sufficiently take into account the adverse effects of heavy
concentrations of older residential structures.” The impaction adjustment in the Williams formula would “target scarce
community development funds more directly to cities and urban counties where urban decay and neighborhood
deterioration are most advanced,” the report said.
7/2/09 4:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 12 of 17http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal77-1201885&type=hitlist&num=8
To pay for the Williams formula the committee bill provided that funds would be taken from the action grant program
and would be phased in over three years. In fiscal 1978, phased in at 50 per cent, the Senate bill formula would
take about $125-million from the action grant program. At a 75 per cent phase-in in fiscal 1979, it would take $200-
million and at 100 per cent in 1980 it would take $275-million of the $400-million authorized for action grants,
Williams' aide said.
The committee bill provided that the basic dual formula would be funded first if the amount appropriated did not
cover all programs authorized. Supplemental payments would then be made according to the adjusted age of
housing formula. The action grant program would be funded only if additional appropriated funds remained.
Application Requirements
In addition to the existing law requirements for applications for block grant funds, the committee bill specified that
communities include a housing preservation plan. The plan would have to identify deteriorated housing stock or
stock in danger of deterioration and would have to include a proposal for preserving or rehabilitating it.
The bill required that housing rehabilitation subsidies benefit primarily persons of low and moderate income and that
guidelines be included to ensure that a “reasonable proportion of rehabilitated units” be set aside for tenants
displaced from the immediate neighborhood through rehabilitation efforts.
The House bill did not include a housing preservation plan requirement for applications but said communities had to
include a program to improve conditions for low- and moderate-income persons living or expected to live in the
community and to foster neighborhood development to induce higher-income persons to stay in or return to the
area.
Housing Rehabilitation
Like the House bill, the Senate bill authorized an appropriation of $60-million for fiscal 1978 for Section 312
rehabilitation loans. However, the Senate bill increased residential loan limits to $27,000. Existing law set the limit at
$12,000, which could be increased to $17,400 at the discretion of the HUD Secretary in high cost areas.
Housing Programs
Generally, the House and Senate committee bills reauthorized the same housing and mortgage insurance programs
and made similar broad changes in them with a lot of minor differences.
The Senate measure authorized $1,239,620,000 in new contract authority, about $7.5-million more than the House
bill, to pay for about 400,000 additional units under the Section 8 rent subsidy and conventional public housing
programs. The Senate total was higher because the amount earmarked for public housing modernization, $42.5-
million, was $7.5-million higher than the amount in the House bill.
The committee bill set aside at least $120-million of Section 8 funds, enough to assist 30,000 units, for aiding
residents of low-income housing projects permanently financed by loans under the Section 202 housing for the
elderly and handicapped program.
The Senate bill also authorized $708.1-million for public housing operating subsidies, $43.1-million more than was
included in the House bill.
Community Reinvestment: Redlining
The Senate committee bill included a section, not in the House bill, designed to encourage federally regulated
financial institutions to meet local credit needs. It was aimed at combating “redlining,” a practice by some lending
institutions of designating areas, usually in inner cities, as bad risks and refusing to make loans there. (Previous
legislation, 1975 Almanac p. 458)
Originally a separate bill (S 406) sponsored by Banking Committee Chairman William Proxmire (D Wis.), the
measure was tacked onto S 1523 by the Banking Committee after some reporting requirements were removed from
it.
Basically, the section would require agencies that supervise federally regulated financial institutions to assess an
institution's record in meeting the credit needs of its “primary savings service area” in evaluating the institution's
applications for new branches. “Primary savings service area” was defined as “a compact area contiguous to a
deposit facility” from which the office gets more than half of its deposit customers.
The committee said the legislation was needed because regulating agencies lacked “systematic, affirmative
programs” to encourage lenders to give priority to the credit needs of their home areas.
“As a consequence,” the report said, “the committee is aware of amply documented cases of redlining in which local
lenders export savings despite sound local lending opportunities.”
Senate Floor Action
The Senate passed HR 6655 by a 79–7 vote June 7 after two days of debate. (Vote 177, p. 28-S)
7/2/09 4:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 13 of 17http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal77-1201885&type=hitlist&num=8
Prior to passage, the Senate substituted the text of its own version of the bill (S 1523) for that of the House-passed
measure.
Community Development
Unlike the House, the Senate did not get into a major dispute over the formulas to be used to distribute community
development block grant funds to big cities. However, questions about the regional aspects of the distribution
system, which tended to favor the older cities of the East and industrial Midwest, were raised. (Comparison of urban
aid levels, box, this page)
Sasser Amendment. The regional impact of the new distribution system under S 1523 as reported figured in debate
on an amendment, offered by Jim Sasser (D Tenn.), that would have changed the method for distributing block
grant funds to cities with populations under 50,000. The House and Senate bills both gave small cities a choice of
two formulas similar to those available to big cities. One formula, carried over from existing law, allotted funds based
on population, housing overcrowding and poverty, counted twice. The alternate formula included age of housing
counted 2 1/2 times, poverty counted 1 1/2 times and population counted once. The second formula used
population instead of growth lag, as in the big cities' formula, because growth lag statistics were not available for
small cities.
Sasser's amendment, which failed 43–45, would have eliminated the alternate formula for small cities and would
have created a task force to study small city problems. (Vote 174, p. 28-S)
Sasser said the dual formula for small cities was based on a false assumption that small cities' and large cities'
needs were the same. He also asserted that poverty, not age of housing, should be the major criterion in
determining community development need. Proponents of the dual formula approach had argued that age of housing
was the best needs test.
“This formula would tend to have a redistribution effect,” Sasser said. “Twenty-seven states and Puerto Rico will
lose money to satisfy the formula's demands.”
Thomas J. McIntyre (D N.H.), sponsor of the dual formula for small cities in the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban
Affairs Committee, acknowledged that using age of housing as a factor in determining the size of grants would shift
the flow of funds.
“I make no bones about the fact that we are attempting to change this formula from the sunbelt areas of new
populations and new cities and turn around to where it should be going now, back to areas that were the first parts
of this country,” McIntyre said.
He also argued that in order for the community development program to treat all cities equitably, the same funding
criteria had to be used.
Lloyd Bentsen (D Texas) supported Sasser's amendment, but he cautioned that debate on the housing bill and on
some other domestic issues had focused attention “on the sort of antagonistic regionalism in which one area
attempts to solve its problems at the expense of another.”
Tower Amendment. The regional rift showed itself again in debate on an amendment by John G. Tower (R Texas) to
permit the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to make action grants to distressed areas of any
city. The bill specified that the grants, designed to attract private investment to cure specific urban ills, had to go to
“severely distressed cities and urban counties.”
The amendment was rejected 36–53. (Vote 175, p. 28-S)
Tower argued that poor people were needy regardless of whether they lived in a distressed city or a thriving one.
“This bill strongly discriminates against those cities and counties that will not be termed ‘distressed,’ but in fact have
areas within their borders that are just as needy as any other community,” Tower said.
However, Edward W. Brooke (R Mass.) argued that the special needs of distressed areas in prosperous cities would
be taken care of with regular block grant funds.
William Proxmire (D Wis.), floor manager of the bill, said that allowing action grant funds to go to wealthy cities
would dilute the amount available to needy communities.
Other Amendments. Several other changes in the community development program were adopted by voice vote.
They included amendments:
By Sasser to create a task force to study the needs of small cities.
By William D. Hathaway (D Maine) to require that 25 per cent of the funds available for action grants go to cities under
50,000 population which were not part of a standard metropolitan statistical area.
By Dale Bumpers (D Ark.) to require that each metropolitan city and urban county receive a block grant of at least 80
per cent of the allocation it received in the preceding fiscal year.
7/2/09 4:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 14 of 17http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal77-1201885&type=hitlist&num=8
Redlining
The Senate defeated by a 31–40 vote an amendment by Robert Morgan (D N.C.) that would have cut the section of
the bill designed to combat redlining. (Vote 172, p. 28-S)
Morgan said the provision would lead eventually to credit allocation—forcing a financial institution to make unsound
loans in a specific location in order to meet its quota of loans for a given locality.
Morgan also argued that the provision would create a “mountain of paperwork,” would discourage financial
institutions in affluent areas from making inner city loans because they would not be meeting the needs of their
primary service areas and would duplicate other antiredlining laws.
Proxmire, who sponsored the anti-redlining provision, said the section was included “to reaffirm that banks and thrift
institutions are indeed chartered to serve the convenience and needs of their communities…and needs does not just
mean drive-in teller windows and Christmas Club accounts. It means Joans.”
Proxmire said the provision had been the subject of an intensive lobbying effort and a “scare campaign by some
trade associations.”
Budget Control
Edmund S. Muskie (D Maine), chairman of the Budget Committee, was successful in deleting from the bill a provision
that would have changed the method used to calculate budget authority for housing assistance programs. Muskie's
amendment to remove the section was adopted 70–18. (Vote 176. p. 28-S)
Under the existing system, new budget authority—legal authority to enter into obligations which result in immediate
or future outlays—was calculated by multiplying the total amount of new contract authority by the maximum term of
the contract authorized.
The $1.16-billion in new contract authority contained in the bill for assisted housing programs, for example,
represented a commitment of nearly $34-billion over future years. Without the Muskie amendment, the only portion
of that figure that would have shown up as budget authority in the fiscal 1978 budget would be about $54-million,
the amount that actually would be spent in fiscal 1978 on those contracts; fiscal 1978 budget authority also would
include about $3-billion for payments on contracts from prior years.
Muskie said that the bill as proposed would “rip major loopholes in the federal budget” by hiding the future year
costs of housing programs and removing them from congressional control. It also would establish “a dangerous
precedent that could lead other special interest groups to develop new ways to disguise the budgetary impact of
programs under their jurisdiction,” he said.
Proxmire said the change was designed to seek equal, not preferred treatment, for housing programs, which he
asserted were the only federal assistance programs budgeted in 1978 for costs that might be incurred in the year
2071.
“What we object to is the fact that 40-year housing money has to compete with one-year money for other programs
in the budget ceiling,” he said. “What this means is that housing will be the first program to be cut and the last
program to be restored or funded.” (Previous controversy, 1975 Almanac p. 809)
Flood Insurance
An amendment by Thomas F. Eagleton (D Mo.), identical to one adopted on the House floor, changed existing law to
permit federally insured lending institutions to make loans to property owners in HUD-designated flood-prone areas
which were not participants in the federal flood insurance program.
The amendment, which was adopted 49–36, also required the institution to notify the recipient that he would not be
eligible for federal disaster relief and that the federal government could not bail out individuals who undertook
development in flood-prone areas without adequate flood-proofing measures. (Vote 173, p. 28-S)
Eagleton said the amendment was designed to give localities “a small degree of choice about how they handle
purely local affairs” and “proceeds from a consideration that maybe—just maybe—local people might know a little
more about their own town and its problems than some Washington HUD official who has never even been to the
community.”
Proxmire said the amendment “drastically, very drastically, alters the flood insurance program,” which was expected
to save the government about $2-billion a year in disaster relief payments by 1980. People would continue to build
in flood plains and require federal bail-out unless sanctions, like the bar on loans in those areas, were imposed, he
said.
Other changes in the flood insurance program, which included increased ceilings for coverage for residences and
small businesses, were adopted by voice vote on an amendment by Harrison A. Williams Jr. (D N.J.).
Costs
Numerous other amendments were added to the bill during floor debate. Among the major ones was an amendment
7/2/09 4:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 15 of 17http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal77-1201885&type=hitlist&num=8
Numerous other amendments were added to the bill during floor debate. Among the major ones was an amendment
by Proxmire to reduce by $123-million the authorized contract authority'for assisted housing programs, bringing the
total to $1.16-billion, the amount requested by the Carter administration. The amendment was adopted on a 39–33
vote. (Vote 171, p. 28-S)
Conference Action
The conference report on the bill (H Rept 95 –634) was not filed until Sept. 26.
The conference committee first met June 28 and held six sessions before recessing in a deadlock July 18.
Early sessions were devoted to working out differences in less controversial items in the bills—and in lengthy
debates over the distribution formulas.
The major spokesmen for the Senate plan were Harrison A. Williams Jr. (D N.J.) and Edward W. Brooke (R Mass.),
who cosponsored the third formula in the Senate Banking Committee and who represented states that would benefit
from it.
They argued that impaction was merely a refinement of the new formula and would more precisely measure urban
decay, a factor the block grant program was designed to combat.
House conferees, led by Thomas L. Ashley (D Ohio), chairman of the House Banking Subcommittee on Housing,
accused the senators of “plundering” the action grant fund.
During the negotiations the senators offered two compromises. One would have funded impaction at 66 per cent
during each of the three years instead of using the 50 per cent, 75 per cent and 100 per cent phase-in approach in
the Senate bill. The second compromise would have funded impaction at 55 per cent each year. Both proposals
were rejected by the House conferees.
More than two months passed before the conferees met again. Two stopgap extensions (PL 95 -60, PL 95-
90) were needed to keep some programs from expiring.
In the interim, pressure to reach an agreement increased. There was heavy lobbying from builders, lenders and
others interested in the housing programs (set to expire Sept. 30) being held up by the block grant controversy.
Meanwhile, parties in the formula fray—including the administration, which favored the House position—were trying
to pick off their opposition.
After several weeks of maneuvering in early September, Ashley proposed a compromise. His proposal eliminated
the Senate formula but said that in distributing action grants the HUD Secretary had to “take into consideration” the
factors in the Senate formula—impaction, poverty and growth lag—in determining the economic and physical
distress of cities. The Senate conferees accepted the compromise with the proviso that the Secretary “must include”
impaction, growth lag and poverty as the “primary criterion” in determining a city's distress.
Williams said he was “extremely pleased” with the compromise which “fully endorses and preserves the concept of
impaction as a principal means of defining urban distress.”
As part of the compromise, the House conferees accepted a Senate anti-redlining provision requiring financial
supervisory agencies to take a lending institution's record of meeting the credit needs of its entire community,
including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, into account when deciding whether it could open a new
branch.
Final Action
Final approval of the measure came four days after the end of the fiscal year, Sept. 30, which was the expiration
date for most of the programs reauthorized in the bill.
Senators took time out of a Saturday, Oct. 1, filibustering session to adopt the conference report. The vote was 54–
19. (Vote 512, p. 74-S)
The House approved the conference report Oct. 4 on a 384–26 vote. (Vote 577, p. 168-H)
Opposition to the report in the Senate came from southern Republicans who argued that the new formula would
short-change their areas.
Jesse Helms (R N.C.) asserted that 40 per cent of the new community development funds in the bill would go to the
Northeast and Central states while only 6 per cent would go to the Midwest, 7 per cent to the South and 9 per cent
to the West.
“I see no reason why the rest of the country should maintain a chronic bailout of the Northeast because the political
leaders of that area refuse to put their houses in order,” Helms said.
Edward W. Brooke (R Mass.) said the bill gave consideration to the northeastern states because they were
discriminated against in the existing law formula used to dole out the funds.
7/2/09 4:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 16 of 17http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal77-1201885&type=hitlist&num=8
“Under the new formula, we tried to bring about some sort of balance…. There is no discrimination against the
southern states, midwestern states or any other group of states. As a matter of fact…no one loses under this bill at
all. Everyone gains,” Brooke said.
But he suggested that the conference report did not go far enough in aiding distressed northeastern cities and said
he was “tremendously disappointed” that conferees did not adopt a Senate-passed formula that would have given
even more funds to cities with above average concentrations of pre-1940 housing.
Some Republicans in both houses objected to inclusion in the bill of a new $400-million annual urban development
action grant plan for special grants to particularly distressed cities.
In the House, John H. Rousselot (R Calif.) called the action grants “the worst possible way” to use some of the new
funds in the bill. Despite provisions spelling out how the grants were to be awarded, the measure did not go far
enough “to assure that this does not become just another misdirected urban renewal program,” he said.
He also asserted that both the criteria to be used to distribute the action grant money and the formula for
distributing the regular block grant funds would shift money to the Northeast and North Central regions “at the
expense of the rest of the country.”
Features
Regional Split
The vote on the Hannaford amendment to scrap the new community development block grant formula broke down
on regional, not philosophical, lines.
The East and Midwest overwhelmingly opposed it.
In the East—the New England states, New York, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, West Virginia and Pennsylvania
—the vote was 1–110 against the amendment.
In the Midwest—Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Wisconsin, Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri and Nebraska—the
vote was 7–105.
But in the southern and western states with newer, growing cities, there was a different outlook.
The combined vote of delegations in Florida, Georgia, Alabama, Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Oklahoma, Texas,
New Mexico, Arizona, California, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee and Kentucky was 132–28 in
favor of the amendment.
Urban Aid Levels Compared
The table below shows how much selected cities would receive in fiscal 1980 in community development block
grants under existing law and the House- and Senate-passed versions of the Housing and Community Development
Act of 1977 (HR 6655). The cities shown are those with populations over 250,000 considered to be the 15 most
needy and the 15 least needy by the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
The block grant program, established in 1974, was the nation's major urban aid effort and was aimed primarily at
neighborhood revitalization. The House and Senate bills took into account physical deterioration, aged housing stock
and population losses in determining grants, a boon for older cities in the East and industrial Midwest. However, the
Senate version emphasized the per cent of pre-1940 housing in a city and would give more funds than the House
bill to cities with above average concentrations of old buildings. The final version followed the House approach.
Fiscal 1980    
Most Needy Existing Low House Bill Senate Bill
(In thousands of dollars)    
Newark $11,646 $16,249 $17,866
St. Louis 17,321 37,524 41,512
New Orleans 20,062 23,080 23,080
Baltimore 21,618 32,497 33,626
New York City 179,563 255,687 284,616
Cleveland 16,613 40,199 44,662
Boston 13,746 26,928 33,928
Buffalo 8,738 24,947 31,884
Washington 18,967 23,277 23,277
Jersey City 5,714 10,708 13,775
San Francisco 14,641 29,119 34,090
Birmingham 8,574 12,308 12,308
7/2/09 4:17 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 17 of 17http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal77-1201885&type=hitlist&num=8
Chicago 73,415 132,881 148,177
Detroit 30,745 65,733 67,457
Oakland 8,082 12,536 12,536
Least Needy    
Dallas 17,318 17,318 17,318
Austin 5,786 5,786 5,786
Houston 26,934 26,934 26,934
Oklahoma City 7,332 7,332 7,332
Nashville-Davidson 8,618 8,618 8,618
Fort Worth 8,159 8,076 8,076
Omaha 6,095 6,095 6,095
Albuquerque 5,073 5,073 5,073
San Diego 12,255 12,255 12,255
Wichita 4,706 4,992 4,992
Tulsa 5,709 5,709 5,709
Indianapolis 12,459 12,459 12,459
Tucson 5,872 5,872 5,872
Phoenix 11,412 11,412 11,412
San Jose 7,232 7,232 7,232
SOURCE: Department of Housing and Urban Development    
Document Citation
"$12.5-Billion Urban Aid Authorization Voted." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal77-1201885.
Originally published in CQ Almanac 1977 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1978).
http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal77-1201885 (accessed July 2, 2009).
Document ID: cqal77-1201885
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal77-1201885
© 1978, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
