8/10/09 2:03 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal77-1201493&type=hitlist&num=2
Credit and Consumer Debt
1977 Debt Collection
1973 Consumer Credit Protection
1972 Consumer Finance Commission
1970 Unsolicited Credit Cards
1970 Consumer Finance Commission
1969 Fair Credit Reporting Act
1968 Bank Credit Cards
1949 Credit Controls
1947 Consumer Credit Controls
Bankruptcy
Consumer Protection
Debt Collection
An article from CQ Almanac 1977
Document Outline
Provisions
House Action
Senate Action
Final Action
Legislation protecting consumers from late-night phone calls, harassment, and
threats of violence by debt collectors was cleared by Congress Sept. 8.
President Carter signed the bill Sept. 20 (HR 5294 —PL 95-109).
Final action came when the House agreed to the Senate amendments to the
bill.
HR 5294  established for the first time a nationwide system of controls on
the activities of debt collection agencies, which collect other companies' overdue bills. Excluded from coverage
under the bill were department stores, banks and other businesses that collected their own debts.
HR 5294  was prompted in part by allegations of unconscionable abuse of consumers by a minority of the 4,500
debt collection agencies in the United States. Some debtors were subjected to constant phone calls, deceived by
collectors posing as government agents and humiliated by revelation of their plight to strangers.
Debt collection abuse laws were already in effect in 37 states and the District of Columbia. Supporters of a federal
law contended that reliance on state laws had left some 80 million people unprotected or inadequately protected
from abuse. Furthermore, the increasing use of interstate phone lines was said to render state control obsolete.
Opponents of the bill, who came within one vote of defeating it in the House, claimed that national legislation would
impose an unreasonable burden of federal control on an industry already regulated by the states.
Bill Weakened
Acceptance by the House of the Senate-passed version of the bill represented a significant retreat for House
sponsors.
The Senate bill contained fewer restrictions on the activities of debt collectors and provided for milder penalties for
violations.
House supporters, led by Frank Annunzio (D Ill.), had little alternative to compromise because of their razor-thin
margin of victory on passage of the bill. The House had passed debt collection legislation by a 77-vote margin in
1976. But when it took up the issue on April 4, the margin of victory had shrunk to only one vote: 199–198. (1976
action, 1976 Almanac p. 449)
The Senate passed HR 5294  Aug. 5 by voice vote without debate, after the bill had undergone major revisions
by the Banking Committee.
Kathleen F. O'Reilly of the Consumer Federation of America characterized the Senate action as a process of “tooth
extraction,” weakening enforcement provisions of the bill. But she conceded that the bill probably would not have
passed at all without the changes.
Most importantly to debt collector associations, which had given ambivalent support to the legislation, the Senate bill
removed criminal penalties for violations. The House bill would have provided for up to one year in jail for debt
collection abuses.
The Senate bill also sought to curb what opponents of the House bill said would be a proliferation of nuisance suits
brought by consumers against debt collectors.
Provisions
 
8/10/09 2:03 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal77-1201493&type=hitlist&num=2
As signed into law, HR 5294  (PL 95-109)
Limited the procedures a debt collector could use to obtain location information on a consumer, and required him to
cease contacting third parties after he learned that the consumer was represented by an attorney.
Prohibited collectors from contacting consumers at unusual or inconvenient times, in most cases between 9 p.m. and 8
a.m., or at all if the consumer was represented by an attorney.
Prohibited contacting a consumer at his or her place of employment if the employer objected.
Prohibited collectors from communicating about payment of a debt with any third parties other than a consumer's
spouse, parent or legal or financial adviser, unless a court had approved it.
Required collectors to cease communicating with a consumer after receiving written notice of the consumer's absolute
refusal to pay, except to inform him of the possibility of further action by the creditor.
Prohibited harassing or intimidating tactics such as the use or threat of violence, abusive language, continuous
telephone calls or the publishing of lists of debtors.
Prohibited false or misleading representation—for example, posing as a lawyer or policeman, or falsely threatening
arrest.
Prohibited collectors from attempting to collect any fees or interest that were not legally chargeable to the consumer, or
from depositing a postdated check prior to the date on it.
Required collectors to furnish within five days of initial communication written notice of the amount and origin of the
debt; required the collector to await certification from the original creditor if the consumer disputed the debt within 30
days.
Prohibited collectors from initiating legal action in any court other than in the jurisdiction in which the consumer or his
real property was located.
Limited the award in any individual damage suit brought under the bill to $1,000, in addition to actual damages, and the
total award in any class action suit to $500,000 or 1 per cent of the collector's net worth, whichever was less; allowed a
court to award attorneys' fees to successful plaintiffs and to defendants if it determined the original suit was harassing in
nature.
Made the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) the enforcing agency for most provisions of the bill,  with some exceptions;
prohibited the FTC from promulgating further trade regulation rules under the bill.
Allowed exemptions for states with debt collection laws substantially similar to the federal law and with adequate
provision for enforcement.
House Action
Committee Action
The House Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs Committee reported HR 5294  (H Rept 95–131) March 29.
Originally introduced as HR  29, HR 5294  was a clean bill containing provisions approved by a 10–0 vote
of the Consumer Affairs Subcommittee March 22. As reported, the bill was substantially the same as the one
passed by the House in 1976.
In arguing the need for federal laws to govern the debt collection industry, the committee said that the spread of
interstate collection agencies using long-distance telephone lines rendered state regulation obsolete. “Interstate debt
collection is a major lawless area,” the committee said. “A debt collector can harass a consumer with impunity by
calling from one state into another.”
In response to criticisms that the bill would represent an infringement on states' rights, the committee inserted a
provision allowing an exemption from the bill for states that had their own strong debt collection statutes. “Any state
wishing to experiment in passing strong legislation in this area will have a free hand to do so,” the committee
stated.
In a separate statement, Republicans George Hansen (Idaho), Richard Kelly (Fla.), John H. Rousselot (Calif.) and
Charles E. Grassley (Iowa) described the bill as “just one more example of unwarranted and unnecessary federal
intervention in the business community.” In addition to being wrong in principle, the Republicans argued, the bill
would have the deleterious practical effect of causing states to relax their own debt collection enforcement. It would
force businesses to tighten their credit policies, thus making credit more difficult to obtain. Furthermore, they said,
the bill would result in higher prices for consumers, by making those who pay their debts subsidize the “deadbeats”
who would use the bill to avoid their obligations.
Edward W. Pattison (D N.Y.) also dissented from the report, saying it had not been proven that debt collection control
8/10/09 2:03 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal77-1201493&type=hitlist&num=2
was a federal responsibility.
Floor Action
HR 5294  was passed, 199–198, after an April 4 debate that gave little indication of the extreme closeness of
the final vote. No amendments, other than the committee amendment of a technical nature, were offered. Few
members spoke against the bill. But on the vote on final passage only the last-minute switches of Texas Democrats
John Young and Henry B. Gonzalez saved the bill from defeat. (Vote 106, p. 34-H)
H Res 469, the rule under which the bill was considered, was adopted by a 347–44 vote. (Vote 105, p. 36-H)
The bill narrowly escaped defeat at the hands of a sharply defined coalition of Republicans and southern
Democrats. The Republicans (41–93) and the southern Democrats (25–57) voted more than two-to-one against the
bill. Northern Democrats (131–48) exceeded that ratio in support of the bill. Representatives of the 13 states that
have no debt collection laws voted 54–25 against the bill.
The heavy opposition to the bill appeared to take its sponsors by surprise. Annunzio reacted sharply to his bill's
close call: “A vote against the bill was a vote of confidence for unethical and criminal conduct of debt collectors….
Certainly Attila the Hun would have been proud of the 198 members of Congress for voting against the bill.”
Senate Action
Committee Action
The Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee reported (S Rept 95–382) its version of HR 5294
by voice vote on Aug. 2.
Arguing that “debt collection abuse by third party debt collectors is a widespread and serious national problem,” the
committee opted for a national solution administered by the federal government.
The committee rejected the argument of opponents that curbs on collectors would aid large numbers of “deadbeats”
who willfully defaulted on debts. The report cited studies showing that the vast majority of defaulters were honest
consumers hit by unforeseen calamities.
But the committee decided to remove several specific prohibitions on collector activities that had been in the House
bill. The House version had limited to twice a week calls by debt collectors to debtors; the Senate bill required only
that calls to consumers be made during business or early evening hours. Similarly, the House bill forbade more than
three calls a month to the consumer's workplace, while the Senate bill allowed calls so long as the consumer's
employer did not object.
The Senate bill did not contain a House provision requiring collectors to communicate with members of single-
language minorities in their own tongue.
The House provision allowing civil suits against violators had set $100 as the minimum award to consumers
successfully bringing individual actions. The Senate bill removed the minimum, retaining only a $1,000 award
ceiling. In a supplementary statement to the committee report, Republicans Harrison Schmitt (N.M.), Jake Garn
(Utah), and John G. Tower (Texas) said that abolition of the minimum “should go a long way in avoiding the type of
nuisance suits so prevalent under the Truth in Lending Act.”
The Senate bill also contained another provision intended to cut down the amount of unnecessary litigation. Courts
would be allowed to order a consumer who sued to pay attorneys' fees of the collector defendant if the consumer's
original suit was found to be harassing in nature.
The Senate bill reduced the time for bringing civil suits against violators to one year after the violation. The House
bill had given prospective plaintiffs two years to bring suit.
The committee removed the section of the House bill providing for criminal penalties of up to one year in jail and a
$5,000 fine. This provision provoked a strong reaction from collectors and was unlikely to ever result in prosecution,
according to a committee aide.
Floor Action
Senate approval of its version of HR 5294 came Aug. 5 by voice vote with no debate.
Final Action
The House by voice vote agreed Sept. 8 to the Senate amendments. There was little debate. The vote cleared the
bill for the President's signature.
Document Citation
8/10/09 2:03 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal77-1201493&type=hitlist&num=2
"Debt Collection." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal77-1201493. Originally published in CQ
Almanac 1977 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1978). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal77-1201493 (accessed
August 10, 2009).
Document ID: cqal77-1201493
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal77-1201493
© 1978, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
