2/8/10 2:22 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 12file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL95-…20Community%20Development%20Amendments%20of%201978.webarchive
Housing Authorization
An article from CQ Almanac 1978
Document Outline
Major Provisions
House Committee Action
House Floor Action
Senate Committee Action
Senate Floor Action
Conference Report
Congress used the fiscal 1979 housing authorization  bill to reassert the right of cities and towns to determine, within broad
federal guidelines, how to spend some $4 billion annually in community development funds.
Key provisions of the legislation (S 3084 - PL 95-557) aimed to block the Department of Housing  and Urban Development
(HUD) and its activist Secretary Patricia Roberts Harris from exerting greater influence over the spending of community
development funds. The bill also established a process by which congressional committees could review and delay regulations
proposed by the department.
The Senate approved the final versions of S 3084 by a 77–8 vote Oct. 14. The conferees' decision to remove a Senate
amendment blocking a HUD reorganization of its field offices prompted eight senators to oppose the conference report. (Vote
497, p. 72-S)
The House cleared the measure for the president Oct. 15, approving the conference report by a 117–6 standing vote.
S 3084 authorized nearly $1.2 billion in new contract authority for fiscal 1979 for an estimated 380,000 housing  reservations
under the Section 8 rent subsidy and public housing  programs.
Reflecting the renewed interest in housing  rehabilitation, especially in low and moderate income neighborhoods, the bill
expanded the Section 312 low-interest rehabilitation loan program, raising the authorization  from $60 million to $245 million
for fiscal 1979. President Carter had sought expansion of the loan program as part of his urban policy.
Recognizing that housing  rehabilitation was likely to result in the displacement of the poor, S 3084 declared that the federal
government, in its administration of housing  programs should, where possible, minimize the “involuntary displacement of
persons from their homes and neighborhoods.”
Two other proposals offered by the president as part of his urban package were also included in the final version of S 3084. The
measure authorized $15 million annually for fiscal 1979 and 1980 to finance small neighborhood projects like home
weatherization, and established a Livable Cities program to finance art and other cultural projects at the neighborhood level. The
Livable Cities program was authorized at $5 million for fiscal 1979 and $10 million for fiscal 1980.
Finally, S 3084 also established a new program, to be administered by the Farmers Home Administration (FmHA), designed to
increase home ownership among the rural poor. The program, similar to the Section 8 subsidy program run by HUD, was
expected to help as many as 16,000 families during fiscal 1979.
Major Provisions
As signed into law the Housing  and Community Development Amendments of 1978 (S 3084 - PL 95-557) contained the
following provisions (effective Oct. 1, 1978, unless otherwise noted):
Title I - Community and Neighborhood Development and Conservation
Rehabilitation Loans. Gave priority for low-interest rehabilitation loans (Section 312 of the Housing  Act of 1964) to applications
from low and moderate income persons who own the property and intend to occupy it after rehabilitation.
Gave the HUD secretary discretionary authority to charge interest on Section 312 loans above the current 3 percent ceiling when the
loans would benefit families with incomes above 80 percent of the median for the area. The higher rates could not exceed the current
Treasury borrowing rate.
2/8/10 2:22 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 12file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL95-…20Community%20Development%20Amendments%20of%201978.webarchive
Increased the maximum Section 312 loan amount for commercial properties to $100,000 from $50,000.
Authorized $245 million for the Section 312 loan program for fiscal 1979; allowed up to $60 million to be used during fiscal 1979 for
multifamily properties.
Prohibited future Section 312 loans to be used for improvements that do not meet cost-effective energy conservation standards. This
requirement was to take effect 270 days after enactment of S 3084.
Established guidelines and requirements for Section 312 loans for multifamily properties, in general requiring that the loans be used
for housing  in low and moderate income neighborhoods.
Limited Section 312 loans for multifamily housing  to properties of less than 100 units, except where the HUD secretary
determines that the loan is essential to community development needs and there are no alternative sources of financing.
Rehabilitation Loan Insurance. Gave the HUD secretary authority under Section 203(k) of the National Housing  Act to insure
loans made by financial institutions for the rehabilitation of one-to-four family properties used primarily for residential purposes.
Permitted the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) to purchase rehabilitation loans insured under the Section 203(k)
program.
Allowed insurance premium charges up to 1 percent per year for rehabilitation loans insured under Section 203(k).
Urban Homesteading. Authorized $26 million for the urban homesteading program for fiscal 1979.
Allowed properties owned by the Veterans Administration (VA) to be eligible for the homesteading program.
Community Development Block Grants. Stipulated that estimates of the number of persons expected to reside in a community, for
purposes of a housing  assistance plan, should cover only individuals who work in the community and live elsewhere, individuals
who are likely to work there as a result of projected employment opportunities, or the elderly, regardless of their employment status.
Effective upon enactment.
Further defined the process of determining housing  needs to allow housing  assistance plans to include estimates based on
a community approved state or regional housing  allocation plan approved by the secretary. Effective upon enactment.
Prohibited the HUD secretary from rejecting an application for community development funds because it addresses any one of the
three primary purposes of the program to a greater or lesser degree than any other. Effective upon enactment. (Primary purposes, p.
306)
Allowed the HUD secretary to reject a community development block grant application only upon determining that the extent to which a
primary purpose is addressed is “plainly inappropriate” to meeting the community development needs and objectives as identified by
the community. Effective upon enactment.
Repealed a prohibition against using community development funds for relocation payments and assistance caused by activities not
funded by the block grant.
Urban Development Action Grants. Required communities to submit impact statements analyzing the effect proposed urban
development action grants would have on area residents, particularly low and moderate income families and their neighborhoods.
Required the HUD secretary to take into account the potential impact on low and moderate income families and their neighborhoods in
deciding whether to award an action grant.
Prohibited HUD from excluding small cities and towns from community development programs unless expressly authorized by statute.
Title II - Housing  Assistance Programs
Troubled Projects. Authorized up to $74 million in fiscal 1979 in financial aid to Federal Housing  Administration (FHA)-insured 
housing  projects facing serious financial trouble; set out criteria to be used by the HUD secretary in determining whether the
financial aid should be given to the projects and how the money could be used.
Tenant Participation. Established procedures and guidelines by which tenants of multifamily housing  projects can participate in
making decisions involving major actions such as rents, improvements in the physical structures and management of the projects.
Property Disposition. Established basic federal policy for management, preservation and disposition of HUD-owned multifamily 
housing  projects; outlined procedures for the HUD secretary to follow in disposing of multifamily housing  projects.
Elderly, Handicapped Housing . Required that at least $50 million in Section 202 loans ( housing  for elderly and
handicapped) be set aside for the development of rental housing  and related facilities for primarily handicapped persons under
the age of 62.
2/8/10 2:22 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 12file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL95-…20Community%20Development%20Amendments%20of%201978.webarchive
Low Income Housing . Authorized $1,195,043,000 for fiscal 1979 in additional contract authority for the Section 8 rent subsidy
program and public housing .
Earmarked at least $50 million of the new contract authority for modernization of existing public housing  projects.
Allowed Section 8 payments for rental costs faced by mobile home owners who rent the lots on which their mobile homes are located.
Authorized up to $729 million for operating subsidies for public housing  projects.
Public Housing  Security. Authorized HUD to begin a demonstration program designed to improve security and alleviate crime in
public housing  projects and their surrounding neighborhoods.
Authorized $10 million for fiscal 1979 for various demonstrations; specified that the money should come from the authorization  for
public housing  operating subsidies.
Authorized the HUD secretary to allow installation of solar units that are economically feasible and cost effective in residential 
housing  assisted through the Section 312, 202 and 8 programs.
Title III - Program Amendments and Extensions
FHA Mortgage Insurance. Extended basic HUD-FHA mortgage insurance and loan programs for one year, through Sept. 30, 1979.
Interest Rates. Extended for one year, through Sept. 30, 1979, the authority of the HUD secretary to set interest rates for FHA-insured
mortgage loans at rates above the statutory maximum of 6 percent.
Mortgage Purchases. Extended for one year, to Oct. 1, 1979, the authority of the Government National Mortgage Association
(GNMA) to enter into new commitments to buy mortgages under the Emergency Home Purchase Assistance Act of 1974.
Comprehensive Planning. Authorized up to $57 million for fiscal 1979 for comprehensive planning grants.
Research. Authorized up to $62 million for fiscal 1979 for HUD-sponsored research and demonstration projects.
New Communities. Extended to Oct. 1, 1979, the authority of HUD to make special planning assistance grants to private new
community developers and state land development agencies.
Crime, Riot Insurance. Extended through Sept. 30, 1980, the authority of HUD to provide new federal crime insurance and riot
reinsurance coverage; continued existing reinsurance and direct insurance coverage through Sept. 30, 1983, and extended the
deadline for HUD to submit a plan to liquidate and terminate the two programs until  Sept. 30, 1981.
Required that as of Jan. 31, 1979, no risk covered by a statewide FAIR plan be insured at a rate higher than the rates set by the
principal state-licensed rating organization for essential property insurance in the voluntary market. FAIR (fair access to insurance
requirements) plans were designed to ensure the availability of property insurance in high-risk areas. (Background, 1968 Almanac p.
317)
Flood Insurance. Extended through Sept. 30, 1980, the authority of HUD to enter into flood insurance contracts under the national
flood insurance program.
Extended through Sept. 30, 1980, HUD's authority to provide subsidized flood insurance under the “emergency program” in
communities that have adopted minimum flood plain management measures and for which the necessary actuarial rate and flood
hazard elevation studies have not yet been completed.
Authorized up to $114 million for fiscal 1979 for flood insurance studies and surveys.
Increased the Federal Housing  Administration general insurance fund by $165 million for fiscal 1979.
Multifamily Mortgage Insurance. Reduced, from eight to five, the minimum number of family units which must be included in a
property covered by a project mortgage insured under Section 207 of the National Housing  Act.
Day Care for Elderly. Ended the prohibition against insuring mortgages for day care facilities for the elderly in the Section 232 nursing
home and intermediate care mortgage insurance program.
Condominium Mortgage Insurance. Authorized HUD to insure one-family condominium units in non-FHA insured multifamily projects
of 12 or more units. To obtain insurance, the project must have been completed at least one year prior to the application for insurance.
Neighborhood Commission. Gave the National Commission on Neighborhoods three additional months to complete its study. (1977
Almanac p. 122)
2/8/10 2:22 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 12file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL95-…20Community%20Development%20Amendments%20of%201978.webarchive
Surplus Property. Lifted restrictions on the transfer of surplus federal land from the General Services Administration to HUD in order
to allow the federal housing  agency to sell or lease the property for housing  for low and moderate income families.
GNMA Mortgage Limit. Increased the maximum original principal obligation of mortgages purchased by the Government National
Mortgage Association (GNMA) under its special assistance tandem plan (Section 305 of the National Housing  Act) to $55,000 for
a one-family residence, $60,000 for a two-or three-family residence, $68,750 for a four-family residence, and, for larger units, $38,000
per dwelling unit ($45,000 in high-cost areas).
Increased by $500 million the total amount of mortgages GNMA could purchase or commit to purchase after Oct. 1, 1978, under the
special assistance program.
National Institute of Building Sciences. Extended the life of the National Institute of Building Sciences through fiscal 1982.
Title I Home Loans. Increased the maximum property improvement loan for multifamily structures to $37,500 from $25,000; increased
the loan ceilings within the maximum to $7,500 from $5,000 per unit; increased the maximum repayment period to 15 years and 32
days from 12 years and 32 days.
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. Provided mortgage bankers with direct sales access to the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.;
gave the corporation authority to establish various requirements for mortgage bankers to participate in the program. Effective 210 days
from enactment, but not before Jan. 31, 1979, or on an earlier date determined by the corporation.
Legislative Review. Established procedures for the House and Senate Banking committees to review regulations proposed by the
Department of Housing  and Urban Development; allowed the committees, by approval of resolutions or legislation, to delay the
effective date of proposed regulations for 90 days.
FHA Multifamily Mortgages. Increased the mortgage limits for non-profit, non-elevator structures insured under Section 221(d)(3) of
the National Housing  Act (rental or cooperative housing  for low and moderate income persons) to $21,563 from $16,860 per
family unit without a bedroom; $24,662 from $18,648 for one bedroom; $29,984 from $22,356 for two bedrooms; $38,379 from $28,152
for three bedrooms; and $42,756 from $31,884 for four or more bedrooms.
Increased limits for non-profit elevator structures under Section 221(d)(3) to $22,692 from $19,680 for a unit without a bedroom;
$26,012 from $22,356 for one bedroom; $31,631 from $26,496 for two bedrooms; $40,919 from $33,120 for three bedrooms; and
$44,917 from $38,400 for four or more bedrooms.
Increased limits for Section 221(d)(4) profit-oriented housing  to $19,406 from $18,450 for a unit without any bedrooms; $22,028
from $20,625 for one bedroom; $26,625 from $24,630 for two bedrooms; $33,420 from $29,640 for three bedrooms; and $37,870 from
$34,846 for four or more bedrooms.
Hospital Refinancing. Allowed hospitals to refinance existing debts under Section 223(f) of the National Housing  Act;
established various requirements for refinancing.
Title IV - Congregate Services
Established a new program designed to provide meals and social services for elderly and handicapped persons living in low-rent 
housing  with group dining facilities. Under the terms of the program HUD would contract with local sponsors to provide the services.
Authorized $20 million for fiscal 1979, $25 million for fiscal 1980, $35 million for fiscal 1981 and $40 million for fiscal 1982 for the
program.
Title V - Rural Housing
Extended through Sept. 30, 1979, Farmers Home Administration (FmHA) programs for low income repair loans and grants and
domestic farm labor housing  grants.
Authorized $48 million for fiscal 1979 for the Section 504 repair loan and grant program.
Authorized $38 million for fiscal 1979 for Section 516 domestic farm labor housing  grants.
Authorized $5 million for fiscal 1979 for Section 525 counseling assistance, and $5 million for fiscal 1979 for Section 525 technical
assistance.
Authorized an additional $3 million for fiscal 1979 for the Section 523(g) self-help development fund for loans with interest rates below
3 percent.
Authorized $38 million for fiscal 1979 for Section 514 farm labor housing  loans.
Authorized the agriculture secretary to conduct research, technical studies and demonstrations aimed at stimulating construction and
improving architectural design and utility of dwellings and buildings.
2/8/10 2:22 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 12file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL95-…20Community%20Development%20Amendments%20of%201978.webarchive
Required the agriculture secretary to study migrant and settled farm worker housing .
Required the agriculture secretary to develop a notification and appeals procedure for applicants denied FmHA assistance and
persons and organizations whose FmHA assistance is substantially reduced or terminated.
Expand eligibility for Section 521 rural rental assistance to congregate and cooperative housing  projects and projects financed by
Section 514 loans to public and private not-for-profit sponsors.
Established a “deep subsidy” program for very low income homeowners who cannot afford FmHA 1 percent interest credit assistance;
limited the program to areas found to be unsuitable for rental housing  assistance; limited to $440 million the aggregate principal
amount of deep homeowner subsidy loans.
Allowed the agriculture secretary to waive the “credit elsewhere” requirement for farm labor housing  loans only in areas where no
public or private non-profit sponsor is available and the loan is necessary to provide the housing ; established the current Treasury
borrowing rate as the interest rate for the loans.
Required the agriculture secretary to study remote title claims that prevent rural persons from full use of their property; required an
interim report on March 1, 1979, and a final report one year after enactment of the act.
Title VI - Neighborhood Reinvestment
Established the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corp., a public corporation, to promote reinvestment in older urban neighborhoods and
continue the work of the Urban Reinvestment Task Force.
Authorized $12.5 million for fiscal 1979 as the federal government's share in funding the corporation. (Background, 1977 Almanac p.
154)
Title VII - Neighborhood Self-Help
Authorized the HUD secretary to provide grants and other assistance to qualified neighborhood organizations for various housing ,
economic development and other conservation and revitalization projects in low and moderate income neighborhoods.
Authorized $15 million for fiscal 1979 and $15 million for fiscal 1980 for the program.
Established procedures and requirements for funding various projects; required certification by local government that the proposed
project is “consistent with and supportive of” the objectives of that local government.
Title VIII - Livable Cities
Established a Livable Cities program designed to stimulate cultural arts programs in urban communities and neighborhoods.
Authorized $5 million for fiscal 1979 and $10 million for fiscal 1980 for the program.
Established procedures and requirements for distributing grants; limited the program to non-profit organizations; required joint
administration by HUD and the National Endowment for the Arts; required certification by local governments.
Title IX - Miscellaneous
Displacement. Declared that involuntary displacement of persons from their homes and neighborhoods should be minimized; directed
the HUD secretary to study and report to Congress by Jan. 31, 1979, on ways for HUD to minimize involuntary displacement caused
by its own housing  programs and by both public and privately financed residential and commercial development and housing
rehabilitation.
Rehabilitation Guidelines. Directed the HUD secretary to develop guidelines for rehabilitation for voluntary adoption by states and
localities; allowed HUD to offer technical assistance to state and local governments in implementing the guidelines.
Interstate Land Sales. Exempted from the Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act fully improved single family lots located within
counties and municipalities that have established minimum standards for the development of subdivision lots.
Excluded U.S. land patents and similar federal grants or reservations from the act's definition of “liens, encumbrances and adverse
claims.”
Exempted from the act real estate legally restricted for commercial and industrial purposes.
Exempted from the act the sale or lease of any improved land on which there is a condominium or on which a condominium is to be
built within two years.
Paperwork Reduction. Required HUD and the Veterans Administration (VA) to undertake, where possible, efforts to reduce
paperwork, primarily by using uniform forms for various housing  programs.
2/8/10 2:22 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 12file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL95-…20Community%20Development%20Amendments%20of%201978.webarchive
paperwork, primarily by using uniform forms for various housing  programs.
Reorganization. Provided that HUD administrative reorganization plans may take effect only after HUD conducts a cost-benefit study
and publishes it in the Federal Register.
House Committee Action
The House Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs Committee reported its version of the bill (HR 12433 - H Rept 95–1161) May 15.
Much of the debate at both the committee and subcommittee levels focused on the use of community development block grant
monies by local governments.
HUD Regulations
The Department of Housing  and Urban Development began the debate by proposing in October 1977 that 75 percent of a
city's community development funds be used principally to benefit low and moderate income persons. After substantial criticism
from House Banking Committee members and interest groups such as the National League of Cities, HUD retreated from the 51
percent proposal and required instead that at least 51 percent of the block grant funds be earmarked for projects benefiting low
and middle income persons.
In addition, HUD said it would conduct a “detailed review” of block grant applications in which less than 75 percent of the funds
would benefit low and moderate income persons.
HUD Secretary Harris made no apologies for seeking to earmark greater percentages of community development funds for the
poor. When she first issued the 75 percent proposal, she declared: “The regulations which we have written…send a clear
message to our constituents. HUD is targeting its funds more carefully to the needs of the poor.”
House Amendment: Primary Purposes
But Rep. Garry Brown, R-Mich., Housing  Subcommittee Chairman Thomas L. Ashley, D-Ohio, and other members of the
House saw the regulations as circumventing one key tenet of community development block grants - the right of communities to
determine, within some broad categories, how they would spend their funds.
The community development act set out three broad purposes for the use of the money. The act provided that each community,
in seeking the grants, must develop a program focused on projects that would: 1) benefit low or moderate income families; 2) aid
in the prevention or elimination of slums or blight; or 3) meet any urgent community needs. (Background, 1974 Almanac p. 345)
Community development grants had been used for such things as housing  rehabilitation, street repairs, parks and
playgrounds, community facilities and other neighborhood conservation efforts.
The amendment adopted by the House committee prohibited HUD from disapproving a grant application simply because it gave
more or less weight to one of the three spending priorities.
Sponsors of the amendment emphasized that they were in no way opposed to making projects for low and moderate income
persons top priority. What they wanted, they said, was to ensure that local communities, and not HUD, made that determination.
“Secretary Harris is saying that she knows what is best. We are saying she doesn't,” one committee source said.
Brown and several other Republicans on the committee went a step further in criticizing Harris. In minority views attached to the
committee report, the group said that HUD issued a notice to its field offices three days after the community development
amendment was adopted by the Housing  Subcommittee, directing the offices how to implement the regulations.
“This notice is an affront to the committee and the CDBG program applicants and represents a level of second-guessing by HUD
that is plainly inappropriate for the program and plainly inconsistent with the statute,” the Republicans charged.
Further, they said, “HUD must learn that the basic constitutional separation of powers provides for Congress, not the executive, to
legislate. If HUD desires to redirect the thrust of the CDBG program it should come to Congress and request a change in the
law.”
House Floor Action
The House passed the bill by a 270–26 vote July 21 after five days of debate. Floor action began June 23, continued June 28–
29 and July 20, and was completed July 21. (Vote 511, p. 146-H)
Legislative Veto
Controversy centered on whether Congress should have veto power over regulations handed down by the Department of 
Housing  and Urban Development. By a 244–140 vote, the House tacked a “one-house” veto provision on the bill. (Vote 448, p.
128-H)
The vote came just eight days after President Carter had sent a message to Congress in which he said he considered the
legislative veto unconstitutional and would ignore it. (Message text, p. 55-E)
2/8/10 2:22 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 12file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL95-…20Community%20Development%20Amendments%20of%201978.webarchive
Sponsors initially proposed the amendment as a result of congressional irritation over several regulations proposed and adopted
by HUD.
But the presidential message exacerbated feelings in the House, according to several members, and apparently counteracted
some White House lobbying against the amendment. A day before the vote, the House leadership counted only 140–150 votes in
support of the president.
As it turned out, Carter barely won majority support from his own party, with 137 Democrats voting against the veto amendment,
and 118 in favor. Northern Democrats demonstrated the most loyalty, splitting 64–113 against the amendment. But Carter's fellow
southern Democrats voted 54–24 in favor of the amendment. Republicans, displaying strong unity, backed the amendment by a
126–3 vote.
As approved by the House, the veto amendment required HUD to submit all housing  and community development
regulations to Congress, allowing either house 90 days to disapprove them. The amendment provided, however, that regulations
would take effect if no committee of either chamber reported a resolution of disapproval within 60 days after the regulations were
submitted to Congress. Garry Brown, R-Mich., said the amendment would not apply to setting Federal Housing  Administration
interest rates.
Arguing for his amendment, Brown contended that HUD was “one of the worst offenders” when it came to trying to undermine
legislative intent. He cited the debate over the community development regulations as a “classic example” of HUD overstepping
its bounds.
“The executive branch is only supposed to carry out the law, and should not use the regulation writing process to enter the
legislative field,” Brown declared.
Brown and other Republican supporters of the amendment also sought to gain some political mileage from a comment by House
Majority Leader Jim Wright, D-Texas. The day after Carter sent his message to Congress opposing the legislative veto, The New
York Times quoted Wright as saying the very possibility of a legislative veto “should serve as a brake on the overzealous
administrator.” Although the Democratic leader voted against the Brown amendment, his words were used as ammunition by
amendment supporters.
Housing  Subcommittee Chairman Thomas L. Ashley, D-Ohio, floor manager of the bill, led the opposition to the amendment,
reminding Brown that HR 12433 already had provisions overturning existing HUD regulations considered by the committee to be
improper.
“In my judgment this earlier approach suggested… is far more effective than the approach [legislative veto] now suggested,” said
Ashley, who described the amendment as a “classic case of overkill.”
Ashley maintained that requiring HUD to submit regulations to Congress for review raised “very troubling constitutional questions.”
Ashley and other opponents of the amendment also said requiring congressional review of regulations would drastically increase
paperwork and add “one more element of red tape and delay into the already tedious rulemaking process.”
Amendments Accepted
In other action on HR 12433 June 28–29, the House adopted amendments:
By Charles E. Grassley, R-Iowa, and Wes Watkins, D-Okla., to prohibit HUD from establishing requirements for allocation of
community development funds that would limit or exclude access by small communities, unless exclusions or limitations were
proscribed by law. Voice vote.
Grassley and Watkins contended that HUD had paid little attention in the past to the community development needs of small cities and
towns. Grassley said the amendment was a “starting point” in getting other federal agencies to treat small towns fairly.
By Brown, Mich., to prohibit HUD from awarding technical assistance grants under the community development program directly to
community organizations. The amendment would allow community groups to receive grants only if the money were passed through the
local government unit. Voice vote.
By Ashley, delaying for one year federal housing  assistance to uninsured state and low income housing  programs. Voice
vote.
By Claude Pepper, D-Fla., to earmark $12 million in Section 202 housing  for the elderly for special demonstration projects to
develop security measures for elderly public housing . Voice vote.
By Leon E. Panetta, D-Calif., to establish a special Section 8 demonstration to determine how to get more owners to participate in the
rental subsidy program. Voice vote.
By Bill  Green, R-N. Y., to raise the mortgage ceilings for the Section 221 (d) 3 program (mortgage insurance to finance rental or
cooperative multifamily housing  built by public, non-profit sponsors for low and moderate income households). The amendment
would increase the amount of a mortgage which HUD could insure to between $18,450 and $41,494, depending upon the number of
units. The new ceilings would be the same as the current mortgage ceilings for Section 221 (d) 4 housing , a similar program used
by profit-motivated builders. Voice vote.
2/8/10 2:22 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 12file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL95-…20Community%20Development%20Amendments%20of%201978.webarchive
In action July 20–21 the House adopted amendments:
By John J. Duncan, R-Tenn., to prevent Social Security cost-of-living increases from being counted as income in calculating rents in
federally assisted housing . Duncan argued that Social Security recipients were unable to get any benefit from cost-of-living
increases because every time they received an increase their rents were raised. Ashley argued against the amendment, saying the
purpose of cost-of-living increases was to cover increased costs of basic needs, like shelter. Recorded vote, 256–38. (Vote 510, p.
146-H)
By James J. Florio, D-N. J., to require the Federal Housing  Administration (FHA), the Veterans Administration (VA) and other
federal agencies that run housing  programs to use the same forms in order to reduce government paperwork and red tape. The
amendment also required various housing  agencies to form an interagency task force, under the direction of the Office of
Management and Budget (OMB), to implement paperwork and regulatory cost recommendations made by the Commission on Federal
Paperwork. Voice vote. (Paperwork commission recommendations, 1977 Almanac p. 748)
Amendments Rejected
The House rejected the following amendments in voting June 28–29:
By Robert W. Edgar, D-Pa., to allow community development funds to be used for mass transportation-related projects such as bus
shelters. Standing vote, 2–15.
Edgar argued that since community development funds under existing law could be used for streets and parking lots, the funds
also should be available for mass transit-related needs. Opponents said funds for bus shelters already were available through the
Urban Mass Transit Administration (UMTA) in the Department of Transportation.
By Tom Hagedorn, R-Minn., to allow non-profit, community organizations to pay below Davis-Bacon Act wage rates for federally
assisted neighborhood housing  rehabilitation projects. Recorded vote, 173–218. (Vote 445, p. 126-H)
Hagedorn argued that the Davis-Bacon Act, because it required paying high, prevailing wages on federally assisted housing ,
made it difficult for low-income organizations involved in neighborhood rehabilitation to operate. Opponents contended, however,
that adoption of the amendment would result in low pay for black and other minority construction workers.
By Cardiss Collins, D-Ill., to exempt the city of Chicago from a placement formula established under a federal district court decision.
The formula prohibited HUD from contracting for new Section 8 construction unless 60 percent of the new units were built in the
suburbs and 40 percent were built in the metropolitan area. Voice vote.
By Millicent Fenwick, R-N. J., to place a ceiling of $100 per month per room for debt service and insurance on the rental subsidy for
Section 8 housing . Standing vote, 12–21.
By Marty Russo, D-Ill., to require all first-time purchasers of FHA-insured mortgages to receive pre-purchase counseling. Recorded
vote, 93–285. (Vote 449, p. 128-H)
Russo argued that such counseling would cut down the number of loan defaults. But opponents of the amendment, led by
Ashley, said that not all persons buying homes needed counseling. They also said HUD was conducting a study to determine
how effective counseling actually is and urged Russo to wait until the study was completed.
The House rejected the following amendments July 20–21:
By James Abdnor, R-S. D., that would have blocked HUD from reorganizing its field offices. Recorded vote, 133–160. (Vote 508, p.
146-H)
Abdnor, whose district included Rapid City, where HUD wanted to close an office, contended that the reorganization would not
save money as HUD had argued and would make it harder for HUD to deliver services to rural areas.
“The rural areas of this country are getting tired of receiving the short end of the stick from HUD,” Abdnor declared.
But Thomas L. Ashley, D-Ohio, chairman of the House Banking Subcommittee on Housing  and floor manager of the bill,
described the Abdnor amendment as a “flagrant attempt on the part of Congress to interfere with the clear authority of the
secretary of HUD to manage and administer the department's field offices.”
Ashley said it is a “natural political tendency to go through the accustomed blandishments” when a government reorganizes its
offices but said reorganizations “are an effort to conserve money and to derive efficiency in organization and staff. That is why
these changes take place.”
By Garry Brown, R-Mich., that would have eliminated a provision in HR 12433 designed to reduce property insurance rates in certain
high-risk, urban areas. Recorded vote, 119–185. (Vote 509, p. 146-H)
The provision would bring property insurance rates issued under FAIR (Fair Access to Insurance Requirements) plans in line with
rates set by principal state-licensed rating organizations for essential property in the voluntary market. Brown argued that the
federal government should not interfere with state regulation of the property insurance market. But sponsors of the provision
2/8/10 2:22 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 9 of 12file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL95-…20Community%20Development%20Amendments%20of%201978.webarchive
federal government should not interfere with state regulation of the property insurance market. But sponsors of the provision
argued that FAIR rates in several states that had FAIR plans were too high for people to afford and amounted to a form of
insurance redlining.
Senate Committee Action
The Senate Banking, Housing  and Urban Affairs Committee reported S 3084 (S Rept 95–871) May 15. The committee
devoted substantial debate to determining proposed spending levels for various assisted housing  programs.
Liberals on the committee, led by ranking Republican Edward W. Brooke, Mass., added, on a 9–8 vote, a package increasing 
authorization  levels well above the administration's recommendations for the Section 8 rental housing  program, the basic
federal housing  effort for low-income persons.
The administration had recommended new contract authority for the Section 8 program of $1,195,000,000 for fiscal 1979, enough
for about 375,000 units. That recommendation required total budget authority of $24.6 billion to cover the “run out” costs of the
program, which often extend as long as 40 years.
But the committee increased the Carter proposal, recommending new contract authority of $1,675,000,000, enough for about
450,000 units. The $1.6 billion in new authority would require total budget authority of about $38.9 billion to cover the run-out
costs of the contracts.
The package of spending increases adopted by the committee also included $800 million in operating subsidies for public 
housing  projects, an increase of $71 million above the administration's recommendation.
The committee also voted to establish a new $75 million program of supplementary rent subsidies for very poor tenants already
living in federally assisted housing  projects in order to reduce their rent to 25 percent of income. The aid would go to
residents of about 25,000 units.
Senate Floor Action
The Senate began consideration of S 3084 July 19 and finished July 20, approving it by an 81–3 vote. (Vote 230, p. 37-S)
Debate focused primarily on three issues - the legislative veto, authorization  levels for assisted housing , and the urban
development action grant program.
Veto Provision
The legislative veto provision, rejected 29–65, was proposed by Harrison Schmitt, R-N. M., who had carried on a running debate
with HUD for nearly a year over a field reorganization planned by the agency. Schmitt was perturbed at HUD's intention to close
an office in Albuquerque. (Vote 228, p. 36-S)
Schmitt, who during committee markup succeeded in tacking a provision to the bill that in effect would block the reorganization,
did not mention his fight during floor debate over the veto provision. Instead, he argued that HUD had repeatedly used
regulations to circumvent congressional intent.
“Of all the executive branch departments, I believe the Department of Housing  and Urban Development is, unfortunately, one
of the worst offenders of this usurpation of legislative power,” Schmitt declared.
He asserted that giving either house of Congress the right to veto HUD regulations would make HUD bureaucrats more respectful
of carrying out congressional mandates.
“The aim of this amendment is simply to require the department to write regulations which are an accurate representation of
congressional intent, and I think the mere existence of legislative veto will insure that that happens….” Schmitt said.
Proxmire and other opponents of the Schmitt amendment countered by saying that Congress should use existing oversight
powers to monitor how a federal agency carries out congressional intent. If Congress feels the agency has not acted properly,
opponents of the amendment argued, then it should simply pass new legislation.
Immersing itself in continuing review of regulations, argued Wendell H. Ford, D-Ky., “would inject the legislative branch into the
day-to-day administrative and regulatory activities of those agencies which we created to administer the laws we wrote.”
Spending Battle
The committee's decision to increase the spending levels led Proxmire and three other members to include a statement of
additional views with the committee report criticizing the committee's recommendations.
Proxmire wasted little time once floor debate began July 19 in pointing out that he felt “very strongly” that the committee bill went
too far in authorizing new spending.
“Inflation is clearly our No. 1 problem today. A higher level of federal spending contributes to that problem,” Proxmire said.
But Brooke countered: “Although I recognize our responsibilities to hold down federal spending and sense the ‘Proposition 13’
fever which has taken hold in both houses of Congress, I strongly believe that housing  for low-income families and the
2/8/10 2:22 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 10 of 12file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL95…20Community%20Development%20Amendments%20of%201978.webarchive
fever which has taken hold in both houses of Congress, I strongly believe that housing  for low-income families and the
elderly is one national priority which should not be lightly disregarded in our rush to slice the federal budget.”
The views of Proxmire and Brooke set the tone for a lengthy debate, with liberals like Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., and Harrison
A. Williams Jr., D-N. J., joining Brooke in arguing for the committee bill.
The effort to trim the spending levels was led by Edmund S. Muskie, D-Maine, chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, and
Lawton Chiles, D-Fla., a member of the committee.
Chiles sponsored the $8 billion reduction amendment eventually adopted by the Senate, but he had 10 cosponsors, including
Proxmire and three Republican members of the Banking Committee - Henry Bellmon, Okla.; Richard G. Lugar, Ind., and Jake
Garn, Utah. The amendment was adopted by a 60–21 vote. (Vote 223, p. 36-S)
Muskie and Chiles argued that the amendment would bring the authorization  levels in line with the levels recommended by
both Carter and Congress in its first budget resolution.
Muskie introduced a letter from Patricia Roberts Harris, the HUD secretary, in which she reiterated the administration's support
for the lower spending levels.
“I believe that the budget requests submitted on behalf of this department are sound and fully justified, in light of the balance
which must be struck between competing national priorities and the nation's housing  needs. I have frequently stated that I
shall oppose with equal vigor any efforts to disrupt that balance, either by adding to or reducing the level of funding we have
requested. That continues to be my position,” Harris said.
The letter, dated July 19, the day of the debate, was requested by Muskie.
Aside from the spending increases for fiscal 1979, Muskie argued that over the next five years the authorization  bill would
require budget authority of about $45 billion above the 5-year “mission targets” included in the first budget resolution.
In addition to reducing Section 8 spending ceilings to the level sought by the administration, the Chiles amendment reduced the
operating subsidies for public housing  to $729 million, and eliminated the $75 million new program of supplementary rent
subsidies.
Explaining the decision to eliminate the new rent subsidy program, Chiles said it was “purely an income maintenance program.”
“Creating a new categorical program of this type would be the opposite of welfare reform,” Chiles said. “We believe this is just the
sort of narrowly conceived program which the American people are complaining about. It has not been debated, and no one
knows what it could ultimately cost.”
Robert Morgan, D-N. C., a member of the Banking Committee, nearly succeeded in resolving the fight with a compromise proposal
that called for spending levels of about $1.2 billion above the administration and budget resolution levels. Brooke and other
backers of the increased funding, sensing a lack of support for their position, voted for the Morgan compromise, but it was
rejected by a 42–47 vote. (Vote 222, p. 36-S)
Action Grant Change
John G. Tower, R-Texas, offered the amendment to allow cities with “pockets of poverty” to qualify for the $400-million urban
development action grant program. The Carter administration opposed the amendment, but a coalition of Sun Belt senators of
both parties provided enough votes to approve the change. The Senate defeated a similar amendment in 1977. (1977 Almanac
p. 135)
Although many cities in Snow Belt states of the Northeast and Midwest could benefit from the amendment, the change would
have greater impact in the Sun Belt states of the South and West.
The amendment changed the method of determining eligibility for the grant program. Under existing law, statistical information
from an entire city was used to assess whether the city was “distressed” enough to qualify for a grant. The Tower amendment
would allow a city to qualify if it had certain areas - defined as census tracts of at least 10,000 persons - that were judged to be
“distressed.”
The existing formula precluded newer, economically healthy cities from qualifying for the program. Backers of the existing formula
said that was the way it should be, because the grant program was designed exclusively for economically distressed cities.
But critics of the formula argued that it did not deal fairly with cities, like Houston or Dallas, that, although healthy economically,
still had “pockets of poverty” within their boundaries.
Proxmire, who opposed the Tower amendment, argued that broadening the eligibility standards would restrict HUD's policy of
“targeting” action grants to the cities that needed the money most.
Nevertheless, the Tower amendment was adopted by a 47–38 vote. (Vote 224, p. 36-S)
In other major action, the Senate agreed by voice vote to add two pieces of Carter's urban package to the authorization  bill.
The urban proposals were the neighborhood self-help fund and the “livable cities” arts program. Authorization  levels for the
self-help fund were set at $15 million each for fiscal 1979 and 1980, the same amounts as requested by the administration, and
$5 million for fiscal 1979 and $10 million for fiscal 1980 for the arts program. The administration had requested authorizations of
$20 million each year for the arts program.
2/8/10 2:22 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 11 of 12file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL95…20Community%20Development%20Amendments%20of%201978.webarchive
Other Amendments
The Senate also adopted amendments by:
John A. Durkin, D-N. H., to promote the use of solar energy in federally subsidized housing  by requiring HUD to develop solar
energy guidelines for owners and local housing  officials for the Section 8, 202 and 312 programs. Voice vote.
William D. Hathaway, D-Maine, to insure that HUD does not discriminate against small cities in its community development programs.
Voice vote.
Howard M. Metzenbaum, D-Ohio, to remove from S 3084 a provision preventing state and local governments from including the value
of interest reduction payments or subsidy assistance in assessing the value of multifamily housing  projects for property tax
purposes. The initial provision was included in S 3084 to counter an expected move in California to include federal assistance
payments in the calculation of property tax value. But Metzenbaum said the California effort never materialized. Voice vote.
Lloyd Bentsen, D-Texas, identical to Rep. Florio's amendment in the House requiring the FHA and VA to use the same forms in order
to reduce government paperwork and red tape. Voice vote.
Chiles, D-Fla., to require the HUD secretary to analyze the amount of paperwork expected to result from new regulations and to
publish the results in the Federal Register. Roll-call, 93–0. (Vote 227, p. 36-S)
John Sparkman, D-Ala., to exempt the sale of fully improved lots developed in compliance with subdivision regulations of the
municipality or county in which the subdivision is located from the filing and disclosure requirements of the Interstate Land Sales Full
Disclosure Act. Voice vote.
Sparkman, D-Ala., to allow FHA-insured mortgage refinancing of hospitals along the same lines as FHA-insured mortgage refinancing
for multifamily housing  projects. Voice vote.
Sparkman, D-Ala., to allow HUD in carrying out demonstration projects to study the feasibility of renewing older housing  by
converting it to cooperatives or condominiums. Voice vote.
Sparkman, D-Ala., to make Jonathan, Minn., eligible for assistance under HUD's new communities program. Voice vote.
Javits, R-N. Y. to make state-insured housing  projects operated under HUD's Section 236 program also eligible for operating
subsidies under the “troubled projects” program. Voice vote.
Javits, R-N. Y. to increase mortgage limits for rent and cooperative housing  built under HUD's Section 221(d)3 program. The
amendment would increase the amount of a mortgage which HUD could insure to between $21,900 and $43,158, depending upon the
number of units. Voice vote.
Javits, R-N. Y. to increase from 10 to 20 percent the number of single, non-elderly persons who may occupy public housing  and
Section 8 housing  in a particular project. Voice vote.
Pete V. Domenici, R-N. M., to allow sponsors of Section 202 housing  for the elderly to participate in the congregate services
program. Voice vote.
Robert Morgan, D-N. C., to require the secretary of agriculture to complete a study on problems associated with remote title claims in
rural areas by March 1, 1979. Voice vote.
Dole, R-Kan., to require HUD to conduct a cost benefit analysis of any department reorganizations of field offices before carrying out
the reorganization. Voice vote.
William Proxmire, D-Wis., to continue an existing requirement that the president report to Congress each year on housing
construction. Voice vote.
The Senate defeated amendments proposed by:
Harrison Schmitt, R-N. M., that would have required HUD to conduct an economic impact statement of proposed regulations and
publish the statement in the Federal Register. Defeated by a roll-call vote of 36–57. (Vote 226, p. 36-S)
Robert P. Griffin, R-Mich., that in effect would have blocked efforts by HUD to prod largely white, middle-class communities into
increasing their number of low- and moderate-income residents. Defeated by a roll-call vote of 34–50. (Vote 229, p. 37-S)
Conference Report
Conferees reached agreement on the final version of S 3084 and reported it Oct. 12 (H Rept 95–1792).
Community Development
2/8/10 2:22 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 12 of 12file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL95…20Community%20Development%20Amendments%20of%201978.webarchive
Both the bill and the conference report made it clear that the HUD secretary could not reject community development grant
applications simply because they might focus more attention on any one of the three main purposes of the community
development program - projects that 1) benefit low or moderate income families, 2) aid in the prevention or elimination of slums
or blight, or 3) meet any urgent community needs.
The final language represented a defeat for HUD Secretary Harris, who sought to use the threat of rejecting community
development grants (and the loss of money) to prod communities into channeling more money to projects that, in HUD's view,
had an immediate benefit for low and moderate income families and neighborhoods.
House conferees argued that they did not oppose making such projects the top priority of the community development program.
But they said that decision should be made at the local level, by the community itself.
The final language adopted by the conferees in their report still gave HUD the power to reject community development grant
applications, but spelled out the permissible grounds for rejection.
Conferees accepted a House amendment designed to prohibit HUD from using the threat of withholding community development
funds to prod communities into increasing housing  opportunities for the poor.
Resolving a long-simmering debate over how a community should calculate its housing  needs for its community development
application, the amendment made it clear that housing  assistance plans only need include those persons expected to reside
as a result of existing or projected employment opportunities in the community and elderly expected to reside in the community
regardless of their employment situation.
That provision was designed to block efforts by HUD to push largely white suburban communities to increase their housing
for the poor by using a “fair share” concept based upon the number of low and moderate income persons living in the entire
metropolitan area.
House conferees agreed to language in the conference report making it clear that the amendment was not intended to pre-empt
a state or judicial requirement that a community undertake a greater share of the responsibility in meeting the housing needs
of the poor.
Legislative Veto
House conferees agreed to drop a “legislative veto” provision added during floor action after Senate conferees agreed to a
review procedure for HUD regulations.
Under the procedure, both the House and Senate Banking committees were to have an opportunity to review proposed HUD
regulations. The procedure also required that a proposed regulation could not take effect for 90 days if either committee reported
a resolution of disapproval or actual legislation.
In their report, the conferees indicated that the review procedure was designed for policy matters and “did not include the
principle of legislative veto of administrative actions.”
That view was reflected elsewhere in the final version of S 3084, as conferees removed a Senate amendment that would have
blocked a HUD reorganization of its field offices.
Action Grants
In a victory for the “Snow Belt” states of the Northeast and Midwest, the conferees also rejected another Senate amendment that
would have allowed prosperous cities with “pockets of poverty” within their boundaries to qualify for urban development action
grants. The amendment was backed primarily by “Sun Belt” senators angry that cities in their states, because of overall economic
health, were not eligible for the grants.
S 3084 did require HUD to study the problems of prosperous cities in meeting the needs of distressed areas within their
boundaries.
Document Citation
"Housing Authorization." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal78-1238563. Originally published in CQ Almanac 1978
(Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1979). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal78-1238563 (accessed February 4, 2010).
Document ID: cqal78-1238563
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal78-1238563
© 1979, 2010, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
