7/2/09 4:32 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal78-1239108&type=hitlist&num=3
Document Outline
Provisions
Background
Senate Committee Action
Senate Floor Action
House Committee Action
House Floor Action
Conference Action
Commodity Futures Agency
An article from CQ Almanac 1978
President Carter Sept. 30 signed into law a bill (S 2391 - PL 95 - 405 ) extending the life of the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) through fiscal 1982. The agency's authorization was to have expired that day.
The Senate had approved the conference report on the bill by voice vote Sept. 28 and the House, also by voice
vote, cleared the measure for the president Sept. 29. The Senate originally had approved a six-year extension July
12 and the House passed a three-year bill (HR 10285) July 26.
The unpopular agency that regulates the intricate and risky business of trading futures contracts on commodities
won a four-year reauthorization despite congressional animosity and Carter administration efforts to dismember it.
In the end, members decided that many of the young agency's troubles were inevitable growing pains, and that it
should continue its difficult task - with more congressional oversight.
The four-year-old commission had been severely and repeatedly criticized as sloppy and ineffective. Most recently a
House appropriations subcommittee and the General Accounting Office turned in damaging reports alleging, among
other things, that the CFTC had improperly diverted its resources to problems with options sales originating in
London. Much of the criticism centered on outspoken CFTC Chairman William T. Bagley, characterized by Sen.
Thomas F. Eagleton, D-Mo., as a “windbag” who did not understand the complexities of the futures market. (Bagley
resigned his post on Nov. 3 to join a California law firm.)
These controversies showed up in final provisions of the bill. The fixed term of the commission chairman was
changed to one served at the pleasure of the president, and trading on most options was suspended until the CFTC
could show congressional agriculture committees that it could handle regulation responsibility.
Another change required the CFTC to clear proposed market contracts on financial instruments of the U.S.
government or stocks with interested agencies - the Treasury Department, Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC) or the Federal Reserve Board. The administration had proposed transferring regulatory authority for these
types of futures contracts to the Treasury and the SEC, and demoting the CFTC to sub-Cabinet status.
The final bill did not include a provision passed by the House and backed by many farmers that would have required
public reporting of export sales of commodities within three days. Farmers had complained that market “insiders”
had an unfair advantage from advance knowledge of major sales, such as the Russian wheat sales of 1972 and
1977. Conferees, however, decided that that proposal would duplicate an existing program of the Agriculture
Department (USDA).
Provisions
As signed into law, S 2391:
Empowered the president to appoint the CFTC chairman from among the five commissioners, to serve at the president's
pleasure.
Directed the CFTC chairman to follow budget and administrative priorities set by the whole commission when spending
commission funds or carrying out its functions.
Deleted a requirement that the Senate confirm the CFTC executive director.
Prohibited commissioners and high-ranking CFTC officials from transacting business for others with the commission for
one year after leaving office; made the provision effective four months after enactment. The ban covered officials at the
 
7/2/09 4:32 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal78-1239108&type=hitlist&num=3
one year after leaving office; made the provision effective four months after enactment. The ban covered officials at the
GS 16 level and above, and Schedule C appointees - those exempt from civil service by reason of their specialized
responsibilities.
Relaxed a requirement that the CFTC staff a liaison office at the Department of Agriculture (USDA), directing the
commission instead to “maintain liaison.”
Required the CFTC to keep the Treasury Department, Federal Reserve Board and Securities and Exchange
Commission informed of its activities relating to the responsibilities of the agencies, and to seek agency views on the
market and financing implications of futures trading in securities and financial instruments under their jurisdiction. Before
the commission could approve an application for a contract market dealing in securities issued or guaranteed by the U.S.
government, the application had to be submitted for comment to both the Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve
Board. The commission was required to make any agency views on an application part of the public record, and was
barred from approving an application for 45 days, or until  agency comments were received. Lawsuits based on any
aspect of this provision were barred.
Prohibited commodity options transactions, with two exceptions, until  30 days after the CFTC sent evidence to
congressional agriculture committees that it could regulate the transactions; exempted from this ban “trade options”
(those between entities that buy or sell the commodity on which the option is based), and certain entities that had been
in the business as of May 1, 1978; required any future CFTC regulations on options transactions to set minimum
financial and management standards, spelled out in the bill.
Required a public hearing and a finding that an individual's options transactions were “contrary to the public interest”
before the commission could terminate an individual's right to trade options.
Authorized the commission to bar any options transactions on physical commodities that it finds contrary to the public
interest, but only after a public notice and hearing.
Authorized the commission to permit commingling of customers' segregated funds for different types of transactions,
under conditions set by the commissions.
Exempted from mandatory registration and related reporting requirements persons active in “cash market” transactions
on agricultural commodities, and non-profit farm groups that advise on cash commodities. (A cash market is one for
immediate delivery of the payment for commodities.) These persons were not exempt from other provisions of the
Commodity Exchange Act (CEA).
Required the commission to publish, at least 30 days before adoption, any proposed changes in contract market
regulations that it considers of major economic significance; allowed the CFTC up to 60 days after receipt to approve
such proposed changes, unless it notifies a market that its proposal violates the commission's statute or regulations. In
the latter case, a hearing was required.
Established CFTC statutory authority to subpoena witnesses and take other actions relating to investigations. (Under
existing law, CFTC investigative authority was derived from the Interstate Commerce Act.)
Required an on-the-record hearing, before cease-and-desist orders or fines were imposed, for a board of trade whose
designation as a contract market had been denied, suspended or revoked.
Empowered states to take civil action against violations of the CEA or regulations based on it. States could seek
injunctions or fines. Entitled the CFTC to intervene in any state action brought under this section. Exempted from state
actions these entities: contract markets, floor brokers, boards of trade licensed by the commission, and clearing houses.
Affirmed that nothing in this section interfered with states' rights to prosecute alleged violations of state anti-fraud
statutes.
Barred the CFTC from disclosing information about traders' business dealings and customers, unless the data had been
disclosed in an administrative, judicial or congressional proceeding.
Eliminated a requirement that the CFTC publish information about traders and their market positions when that data had
been supplied to a congressional committee.
Authorized the CFTC to fingerprint applicants for registration.
Ended CFTC authority to publish market positions of traders when it is “communicating” with exchange officials or
committees about potentially disruptive or harmful market developments.
Authorized establishment of mandatory-membership professional associations for regulating business practices of
members.
Raised to $15,000, from $5,000, the amount of damages that had to be alleged for arbitration proceedings by a
professional association.
Authorized the commission to delegate registration to professional associations.
Required each exchange to disclose findings and reasons for any disciplinary action or denial of membership.
7/2/09 4:32 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal78-1239108&type=hitlist&num=3
Raised to felony, from misdemeanor status, various fraudulent and deceptive practices, including falsifying registration
information.
Raised to $500,000, from $100,000, the maximum fine for felonies committed by organizations; raised to $100,000, from
$10,000, the maximum fine for felonies committed by CFTC staff and agents.
Authorized appropriations as needed for commission operations for four years, through fiscal 1982.
Affirmed that reparations proceedings were in order whether the alleged violation was committed by a registered
individual or one who had not registered even though required to do so.
Made a hearing optional, not mandatory, in reparations cases where alleged damages were under $5,000.
Prohibited leverage transactions on agricultural commodities; required the commission to regulate leverage transactions
in gold and silver; authorized it to prohibit or regulate leverage transactions on all other commodities by Oct. 1, 1979;
authorized the commission to regulate any leverage transaction as a futures contract if it found that to be appropriate.
(But conferees told the CFTC to hold off implementing its decision to treat all gold and silver leverage contracts as
futures contracts, until  House and Senate committees could hold hearings on the proposal.)
Authorized the commission to grant use immunity to witnesses appearing before the commission. (Under use immunity,
the government grants a witness immunity from prosecution for specific offenses, while at the same time compelling him
to testify. The witness is not protected from prosecution relating to the crime on which he testified if the government can
obtain evidence independent from the testimony.)
Required the secretary of agriculture to study and report within one year of enactment on the impact of futures trading
on potato marketing.
Authorized the CFTC to collect “user fees” from entities regulated by the commission, to cover the costs of regulation;
barred the commission from implementing any user fee plan until  the plan had been approved by both House and
Senate Agriculture committees; provided for payment of the fees to the U.S. Treasury, and stipulated that income from
the fees would be spent “in accordance with the appropriations process.”
Background
Congressional action in 1974 extended the Commodity Exchange Act to cover all commodities that had not been
regulated and all other services, rights and interests in contracts for future delivery. (About one-third of the
commodities traded in 1973 involved unregulated commodities.) The 1974 act (PL 93-463) created the independent
five-member commission in place of a regulatory unit within the Department of Agriculture. It also gave the CFTC
the discretion to regulate or ban options trading that was not already illegal, authorized injunctive relief against
various violations and empowered the commission to intervene in contract markets to restore orderly trading in
emergency situations. Registration requirements were extended to more professionals dealing with the contracts.
The 1974 act also included a “sunset” clause allowing the CFTC to expire in 1978 unless it were reauthorized. (1974
Almanac p. 215)
Both the General Accounting Office (GAO) and the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture turned in
highly critical reports on the four-year-old agency earlier in 1978. Among other things, the CFTC was said to be
ineffective at screening firms and individuals for registration, slow to move against manipulations of the market,
slower still at processing reparations claims, and lacking in internal structure. The reports also said the commission
had improperly allowed itself to to be sidetracked from its main responsibility by the problems with London options.
The Carter administration recommended transferring CFTC authority over registered securities to the SEC, and
giving the Treasury Department the final right to approve or disapprove designation of markets for trading futures
contracts on government financial instruments, such as Treasury bonds. The Office of Management and Budget
(OMB) proposal also said that the CFTC should be eliminated and that its function should be assigned to a sub-
Cabinet agency, comparable to the Environmental Protection Agency. However, the proposal was not received until
the final day of Senate Agriculture Committee markup, too late to be considered, according to Chairman Herman E.
Talmadge, D-Ga.
Senate Committee Action
In its May 15 report (S Rept 95 –850) on S 2391, the Senate Agriculture Committee said the 1974 bill had
brought “progress toward encouraging honest and sound dealing.… The basic conclusion reached in 1974 that there
should be a single regulatory agency responsible for futures trading is as valid now as it was then,” it said.
The greatest “substantive” problem since 1974, the committee said, had been with dishonest commodity-related
transactions traded “off-exchange” - that is, off the organized, designated contract markets. The CFTC therefore had
been forced to divert futures personnel to options-related activities. Thirty of 38 options firms were under
investigation and injunctions had been obtained against 60 firms and individuals, the committee said. The states had
been effectively prevented from helping crack down on fraudulent options operations by the 1974 law, which
preempted their commodities futures regulatory authority, the committee said.
7/2/09 4:32 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal78-1239108&type=hitlist&num=3
Nevertheless, witnesses had told the committee that the young commission had “done a credible job in light of the
enormous tasks with which it found itself confronted.” Splitting up CFTC regulatory authority among several agencies
“would only lead to costly duplication and possible conflict or over-regulation,” the committee concluded.
Senate Floor Action
After heaping verbal abuse on the unpopular agency, the Senate decided to give it six more years to shape up.
By an 84–6 vote the Senate July 12 voted to extend the life of the CFTC through fiscal 1984, with no major
structural changes. (Vote 206, p. 34-S)
Complaints against the commission ranged from sloppy management to failure to fulfill  its basic mandate, regulation
of the trillion-dollar futures market. Eagleton said he thought the CFTC was “the most messed up federal agency in
the government, bar none.”
Even the floor manager of the reauthorization bill, Patrick J. Leahy, D-Vt., conceded that the troubled commission
was “a strong contender” for the title of “worst” federal agency.
CFTC Chairman William T. Bagley and his four fellow commissioners came in for unusually acid criticism during the
Senate debate on S 2391. “Bumblers and sycophants” is the way Orrin G. Hatch, R-Utah, referred to them, and
Eagleton claimed that “a lot of the troops on the commission think [Bagley] is a windbag. I happen to think he is,
too.”
Before passing the reauthorization bill, the Senate rejected an attempt to unseat Bagley and another new,
controversial commissioner, David G. Gartner. The vote was on a proposal to dissolve the existing five-member
commission and replace it with a newly appointed, three-member unit.
Gartner had come under fire for having accepted, before his appointment, sizable gifts of stock for his children from
the president of a Midwest grain company whose business was partially regulated by the CFTC. President Carter
and Vice President Mondale had both tried, unsuccessfully, to secure Gartner's resignation when the gifts were
publicized after his confirmation. Under existing law, CFTC commissioners could be removed only by impeachment.
But Leahy defended Gartner who, he said, had “bent over backwards” to inform both the White House and the
Senate Agriculture Committee of the gifts before his appointment. Leahy urged his colleagues not to “damage …a
significant piece of legislation just because somebody at the White House screwed up.”
While the Senate refused to unseat Gartner and Bagley, the bill as passed reined in the commission's
independence somewhat. The fixed, five-year term of the chairman was changed to a position served at the
president's pleasure. States were empowered to move against violations of the federal commodities futures statute,
and industry associations were authorized to handle reparations proceedings.
The Senate bill also suspended trading in commodity options except for dealers meeting stiff financial and
professional standards, and stipulated that the CFTC should not permit options trading to resume unless it could
show it had the resources and expertise to regulate it. The risky options market had hatched some notable recent
scandals. (An option is, basically, a chance to buy a contract at a future date.)
Also included in the Senate bill was a $1 million-a-year study on the effect of futures trading on the price of farm
commodities.
Eagleton launched the attack on the CFTC with an amendment to replace the existing commission with a new one,
headed by a single chief. This move would improve the CFTC administratively and had “absolutely and categorically
nothing to do with the Gartner controversy,” Eagleton maintained. He subsequently withdrew the amendment,
saying he had been advised that slashing the commission from five members to one was too drastic.
John Melcher, D-Mont., then proposed to replace the existing commission with a new, three-member Commodities
Trading Commission. Melcher said his amendment would extricate both the commission and Gartner from the
embarrassment of his continuing as a commissioner.
Opposing Melcher were Leahy, Walter “Dee” Hudleston, D-Ky., and Bob Dole, R-Kan., who said that if the Senate had
been mistaken in confirming Gartner, it should not try to undo the mistake at the expense of the commission and
the new commissioner. Gartner “came to us with clean hands” and no new charges had turned up since his
confirmation, Dole said. Leahy moved to table the Melcher amendment, winning by a 69–23 vote. (Vote 205, p. 33-
S)
Other Amendments
The Senate took these other actions:
Agreed by voice vote to a Huddleston amendment re-establishing a maximum fine of $100,000 for felonies under the
commodities act. The amendment also specified which sections of the act would carry criminal penalties for violations of
CFTC rules and regulations.
7/2/09 4:32 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal78-1239108&type=hitlist&num=3
The committee bill had raised the maximum criminal penalty to $500,000 and had broadly authorized criminal
penalties for violations of the commodities futures statute and of all CFTC regulations and rules based on that
statute. Huddleston said the higher criminal fine could exhaust funds that would otherwise be available to pay
defrauded customers reparations. And, he said, “the bureaucracy should not have total leeway to create new crimes,
particularly felonies, through the issuance of rules, regulations and orders.”
Agreed by voice vote to an Eagleton amendment authorizing “user fees” to be paid to the CFTC by persons whose
transactions the commission regulated.
Agreed by voice vote to a Bellmon, R-Okla., amendment to expand the bill's authorization for state enforcement of the
Commodity Exchange Act and CFTC regulations and rules. Bellmon's amendment empowered states to bring civil suits
for financial settlements, as well as injunctions, on behalf of residents, if the CFTC were notified of the suit.
Agreed by voice vote to a Leahy amendment deleting a one-house veto of any CFTC proposal to regulate renewed
trading in commodity options.
Leahy said he wanted the veto provision removed “just simply to give us some time to better evaluate” a recent
Carter declaration that he would not honor the legislative vetoes. Leahy said the House bill included a similar veto
provision, and that he expected the issue to be dealt with in conference.
Rejected by voice vote an Eagleton amendment to suspend trading in most “leverage” contracts until  the CFTC had
developed “effective” regulatory methods. These contracts, most commonly used for long-term purchase of precious
metals like gold, involve installment payments against future delivery of the commodity.
Leahy said the commission should be allowed to use new discretionary power authorized by the bill to deal with any
problems. Huddleston also objected to an outright ban on leverage transactions. Since the scope of this
“developing…activity…in trading” was not yet known, it was unreasonable “to assume that every trade is a
fraudulent trade,” Huddleston said. He added that anti-fraud laws could also be used to curb abuses.
House Committee Action
Like its Senate counterpart, the House Agriculture Committee rejected an administration proposal to reduce the
commission to sub-Cabinet status and parcel out major CFTC responsibilities to the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) and the Treasury Department.
Maintaining a “strong, prestigious independent commission” was the best way to ensure a “fair, open” futures
market, the committee said in its May 15 report on HR 10285 (H Rept 95 –1181).
The committee recommended a three-year reauthorization, because the rapid rate of expansion and change in the
industry made early review of the CFTC's mandate “desirable.”
House Floor Action
After three sessions (July 21, 25–26) on the complex bill and 14 amendments, the House approved a three-year
reauthorization of the CFTC (HR 10285) by a 401–6 vote July 26 and then moved to substitute its text for the
Senate-passed measure (S 2391) and request a conference. (Vote 524, p. 150-H)
Major issues debated were whether commodities export sales should be quickly publicized to cut the advantage of
market “insiders,” and whether states should be allowed to pre-empt federal enforcement of key portions of the
commodities statute.
The House by a 273–125 vote adopted an amendment by Neal Smith, D-Iowa, requiring reporting within 48 hours of
export sales and related information, with public disclosure of the reports on the third day after the sale. (Vote 523,
p. 150-H)
The amendment was prompted by farmer discontent with the secrecy surrounding massive grain sales to the Soviet
Union in 1977 and 1972. In these sales, Smith charged, big grain companies had been able to buy up farmers'
stocks at unfair, low prices by masking the “real demand” for the wheat.
The House rejected 141–260 a Baldus, D-Wis., amendment that would allow states to pass and enforce
commodities laws if they were identical to key sections of the federal commodities statute. (Vote 522, p. 150-H)
Baldus said his amendment was needed to ensure adequate policing of the industry, since the CFTC was not given
either “resources (or) manpower to monitor the industry on a nationwide basis.” But opponents argued that even
though the text of state and federal laws would be identical, interpretations could vary among different state courts,
“causing regulatory chaos,” according to Steven D. Symms, R-Idaho. Anything other than uniform national
enforcement would be a hardship for the industry, opponents said.
The House also:
7/2/09 4:32 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal78-1239108&type=hitlist&num=3
Agreed by voice vote to a Glickman, R-Kan., amendment requiring the Securities and Exchange Commission, the
General Accounting Office and the CFTC to evaluate the relationship between futures in general and futures on financial
instruments like government bonds.
Agreed by voice vote to a Findley, R-Ill., amendment limiting to nine months a discretionary exemption for certain firms
from a general ban on futures trading.
Rejected by a 6–24 standing vote a Symms amendment to end what Symms called a “double jeopardy” situation. Under
existing law, the commission could move in both federal court and administrative proceedings against alleged violations.
Opponents of Symms' amendment argued that the authority for dual action should be retained, because the courts could
move quickly to enjoin questionable activity while administrative judges with appropriate expertise could deal with the
substance of a commodities futures problem.
Agreed by voice vote to a Foley, D-Wash, amendment deleting a requirement in the committee bill that states could only
prosecute certain violations of the commodities statute and regulations under the parens patriae doctrine. Foley argued
that the “confusing” doctrine, which required a state to demonstrate that a violation had injured its citizens, held up
action against criminal violations. With Foley's amendment, states had only to demonstrate that a violation had occurred
in order to proceed.
Agreed by voice vote to a Foley amendment narrowing the bill's conflict-of-interest provision for high-ranking officials by
limiting its application to those with confidential or policy-making responsibilities. Foley said the committee's provision,
which covered all positions at the GS 16 level or above, would make it hard for the agency to recruit high-caliber
lawyers, economists and others with needed expertise.
Agreed by voice vote to a Panetta, D-Calif., amendment raising to $500,000, from $100,000, the maximum criminal
penalty for organizations violating the commodities statute.
Agreed by voice vote to an AuCoin, D-Ore., amendment requiring a 30-day public notice and comment period before the
CFTC approved any contract market rules of “major economic significance.”
Agreed by voice vote to a Richmond, D-N.Y., amendment broadening a provision prohibiting disclosure of confidential,
market-sensitive information or the identity of traders and customers until  the information had been disclosed in judicial,
congressional or administrative proceedings.
Agreed by voice vote to a Cohen, R-Maine, amendment directing the General Accounting Office (GAO) to study and
report within a year on the market impact of futures contracts in Irish potatoes.
Rejected amendments to disqualify potential commissioners who had received gifts from individuals with interests
regulated by the CFTC, and to exempt commodities clearinghouses from direct CFTC regulation.
Conference Action
In most respects the House and Senate bills differed more in detail than in intent. Conferees settled on a four-year
reauthorization, compared with the three-year House extension and the six-year extension passed by the Senate.
With a few exceptions they simply blended differing features of both bills, retaining most items passed by each
house. The report (S Rept 95–1239) was filed Sept. 25.
On the regulation of options, conferees indicated that they did not intend a suspension of trading to become a
permanent ban on options transactions. The commission should “expeditiously proceed with plans to implement
exchange trading … to assure that options will, in fact, be traded on domestic exchanges, to the extent possible with
existing commission resources,” conferees said.
On the subject of leverage transactions, the conferees expressed surprise at a September CFTC decision to treat
leverage contracts in gold and silver as futures contracts, for purposes of regulation. (These contracts, most
commonly used for long-term purchase of precious metals, involve installment payments against future delivery of
the commodity.) Conferees told the CFTC to hold off final action on the reclassification of the leverage contracts until
House and Senate Agriculture conference committees could hold hearings on the proposed change.
Conferees followed the House in substantially beefing up fines for criminal violations of the commodities statute by
organizations. They chose a narrower House conflict-of-interest provision over a Senate version that would have
covered many more employees. The Senate bill applied restrictions on post-employment contacts to officials at the
GS 15 level and above. The final version imposed restrictions beginning at the GS 16 level.
These provisions were not included by conferees in the final bill:
A Senate-approved provision designed to protect customer funds from being seized in bankruptcy proceedings against a
futures merchant was dropped because the 1978 bankruptcy reform act (HR 8200) included a provision on the treatment
of these funds. (Bankruptcy act, p. 179)
Conferees dropped a Senate provision requiring the commission to monitor forward contracts on agricultural
commodities for six years and recommend policy changes on the contracts, if needed. Instead, conferees said, Rep.
Thomas S. Foley, D-Wash., and Sen. Herman E. Talmadge, D-Ga., chairmen of the House and Senate Agriculture
7/2/09 4:32 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal78-1239108&type=hitlist&num=3
Thomas S. Foley, D-Wash., and Sen. Herman E. Talmadge, D-Ga., chairmen of the House and Senate Agriculture
committees, had asked the secretary of agriculture to conduct the study. In a similar decision, conferees retained a
House-passed provision mandating a year-long study of the impact of potato futures contracts on the potato market, but
assigned responsibility for the study to the Agriculture Department instead of the commission.
A House-passed requirement that exporters make detailed reports on commodity export sales to the CFTC within 48
hours, with publication of the data the following day, was dropped because the Agriculture Department “already has an
export sales reporting program,” according to conferees. They noted that the secretary had recently appointed a
committee to review the export reporting system and to recommend improvements.
A Senate provision establishing a national commission to study and report on the impact of futures trading on farm
income was deleted, without comment.
Document Citation
"Commodity Futures Agency." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal78-1239108. Originally published in
CQ Almanac 1978 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1979). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal78-1239108
(accessed July 2, 2009).
Document ID: cqal78-1239108
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal78-1239108
© 1979, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
