7/2/09 4:33 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 5http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal78-1238538&type=hitlist&num=8
Banking
1998 Congress Clears Legislation
Allowing Credit Unions To Expand
Membership
1995 House Shelves Banking Overhaul
1994 Other Banking Legislation
Considered in 1994
1994 Community Development Banking
Provisions
1994 Banking Law Undergoes Revision
1991 Congress Clears Slimmed-Down
Banking Bill
1991 Banking Nominations
1988 Caught in Turf Battle, Bank
Powers Bill Dies
1986 Major Banking Legislation Stalls
in Last Hours
1985 Banking Bills Fail to Reach House
Floor
1979 Banking Deregulation
1978 Electronic Banking Services
1978 Banking Regulation
1976 Banking Changes Blocked
1975 Senate Approves Broader Banking
Powers
1974 Citicorp Notes
1974 Banking Insurance, Credit Bill
Cleared
1970 Regulation Extended to One-
Bank Holding Companies
1969 Bank Holding Companies
1967 Truth-In-Lending Bill Passed by
Senate
1966 Bank Supervision
1966 Bank Holding Company Act
Exemptions Changed
1965 Bank Investigation
1957 Banking Revision
1955 Bank Companies
Antitrust
Federal Reserve
Savings and Loan Industry
Stock Market and Financial Services
Banking Regulation
An article from CQ Almanac 1978
Document Outline
Provisions
Legislative History
Congress Oct. 15 approved an important package of banking legislation, a
large part of which was designed to regulate the activities of bank officials.
The bill (HR 14279 - PL 95 - 630 ), which was cleared with little debate
in the early morning hours of the last day of the 95th Congress, also
contained provisions sought by a variety of competing industry groups.
Many parts of the 260-page composite bill had already been passed by the
House, the Senate or both, but it was only after they were tied together into
one package overnight that their enactment became possible.
The House approved the measure at 2:30 a.m. by a vote of 341–32. The
Senate cleared it by voice vote a few hours later. (House vote 823, p. 234-H)
The bill prohibited some of the practices of bank executives that were brought
to public attention during the investigation of the financial dealings of Bert
Lance, the former director of the Office of Management and Budget. (1977
Almanac p. 157)
Other parts of the legislation satisfied various financial industry lobbies and
brought their support behind the entire package.
For those interested in curbing abuses by bank executives, the bill provided
for tighter controls on insider lending and interlocking directorates among
financial institutions and gave expanded authority to bank regulators.
For consumers, the legislation provided safeguards in electronic fund-transfer
systems such as computerized bank tellers and limited access by federal
authorities to individuals' bank records.
For banks, the legislation eliminated an interest-rate advantage enjoyed by
savings and loan associations on so-called transaction accounts, which
basically work like checking accounts and were to be offered depositors on
Nov. 1.
For savings and loan associations, the measure extended Regulation Q,
under which bank regulatory agencies set differential ceilings on interest rates
that may be paid on savings deposits, and provided new authority for savings
and loans to invest in urban areas.
For mutual savings banks, the bill authorized federal charters.
For New York bankers, the legislation provided authority to offer interest-
bearing checking accounts known as negotiable order of withdrawal (NOW) accounts.
The bill also extended the life of the U.S. Export-Import Bank for five years and provided for the public sale of gold
medallions.
Provisions
As cleared by Congress, HR 14279:
Title I-Supervisory Authority and Insider Dealings
 
7/2/09 4:33 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 5http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal78-1238538&type=hitlist&num=8
Increased the supervisory power of bank regulatory agencies by allowing them, subject to due process safe-guards, to:
1. Impose civil penalties on banks or bank officials who violate banking laws.
2. Issue cease-and-desist orders to halt illegal or unsound banking practices.
3. Remove or suspend bank officials who engage in illegal or unsound banking practices.
4. Order banks or savings and loan association holding companies to terminate their ownership of subsidiaries when the
ownership is judged to constitute a serious risk to the financial safety of the bank subsidiaries. Nonbank subsidiaries of
banks were exempted from the provision, however.
Required that loans to executive officers or to persons who directly or indirectly or acting in concert with others own,
control or have the power to vote more than 10 percent of any class of voting securities of a bank (18 percent in the
case of a bank located in a city, town or village with less than 30,000 in population) be subject to the same limits on
loans imposed on other borrowers. The prohibition applied to companies controlled by such people and to political or
campaign committees which benefit them.
Prohibited banks from making loans to such “insiders” in excess of $25,000 unless approved in advance by the majority
of the board of directors, with the interested party abstaining.
Required that loans to insiders be made on the same terms available to other borrowers.
Prohibited overdrafts by bank directors and executive officers.
Empowered the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC) to make loans to, purchase the assets of or make a
contribution to an insured institution in danger of default; and to take similar actions to aid another insured institution to
merge with a financially endangered institution.
Title II - Interlocking Directorates
Prohibited management employees or directors of depository institutions (commercial banks, savings banks, trust
companies, savings and loan associations, homestead associations, cooperative banks, industrial banks and credit
unions) from serving on any other depository institutions located within either the same Standard Metropolitan Statistical
Area (SMSA) or the same city, town or village.
Prohibited management employees or directors of depository institutions or depository holding companies with total
assets exceeding $1 billion from serving on any other depository institution with assets exceeding $500 million.
Gave individuals who violated the interlocking directorate provisions of the law by dint of previous practice 10 years to
comply.
Title III - Foreign Branching
Permitted the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. to approve the establishment of foreign branches of state-chartered
banks that do not belong to the Federal Reserve System.
Title IV - American Arts Gold Medallions
Provided for the minting and public sale of one-ounce and half-ounce gold medallions commemorating Americans
outstanding in the arts, including Grant Wood, Marian Anderson, Mark Twain, Willa Cather, Louis Armstrong, Frank
Lloyd Wright, Robert Frost, Alexander Calder, Helen Hayes and John Steinbeck.
Title V - Credit Union Restructuring
Established the National Credit Union Administration under the management of a three-member National Credit Union
Board. Federal credit unions were required to pay fees to the administration, which was formed to supervise them.
Title VI - Change in Bank Control Act
Required persons acquiring control of any insured bank to provide notice of the planned acquisition to regulatory
officials at least 60 days in advance.
Authorized bank officials to disapprove a proposed acquisition if they determine it would lessen competition or jeopardize
the financial stability of the bank or prejudice the interests of the depositors.
Title VII - Change in Savings and Loan Control Act
Provided similar requirements for advance notice of acquisition of savings and loan associations, and gave the Federal
Home Loan Bank Board authority to disapprove such acquisitions.
7/2/09 4:33 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 5http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal78-1238538&type=hitlist&num=8
Home Loan Bank Board authority to disapprove such acquisitions.
Title VIII - Correspondent Accounts
Prohibited banks which maintain correspondent accounts for other banks from providing preferential loans to executives
and major stockholders of the other banks.
Required insiders to report annually to their boards of directors the loans they have outstanding with correspondent
banks.
Required banks to compile such reports and forward them to regulatory officials.
Title IX - Disclosure
Required banks to report annually the names of each stockholder who directly or indirectly owns, controls or has the
power to vote more than 10 percent of any class of voting securities.
Required banks to report the amount of all loans to such stockholders, executive officers, and any companies they
control or political committees set up for their benefit.
Title X - Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
Established a Financial Institutions Examination Council, whose purpose was to prescribe uniform principles and
standards for the federal examination of financial institutions by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Home Loan Bank
Board, and the National Credit Union Administration.
Title XI - Right to Financial Privacy
Established conditions and procedures whereby government agencies could obtain and share individuals' bank records.
In most cases, the law required that individuals receive advance notice that their records were being sought and that
they be given a chance to challenge the government's request in court.
Specified that information obtained under provisions of the title could be used or retained only for the purpose for which
it was originally sought.
Title XII - Charters for Thrift Institutions
Provided state mutual savings banks located in states which authorize the chartering of state mutual savings banks the
option of obtaining a federal charter from the Federal Home Loan Bank Board.
Title XIII - NOW Accounts
Authorized the establishment of NOW accounts (interest-bearing checking accounts) by savings banks in New York
State. Previous law authorized such accounts in the six New England states. (Background, 1977 Almanac p. 152, 1976
Almanac p. 88, 1975 Almanac p. 161)
Title XIV - Insurance of IRA and Keogh Accounts
Increased to $100,000 the amount of insurance available for time and savings deposits in insured banks made pursuant
to pension or profit-sharing plans.
Title XV - Miscellaneous Provisions
Extended the prohibition on merchant credit card surcharges for two years.
Defined “community” for depository institutions serving military personnel.
Title XVI - Interest Rate Control
Extended for two years, until  Dec. 15, 1980, the authority (Regulation Q) of federal regulatory agencies to set the
maximum interest rates that banks and savings institutions can pay and eliminated the interest differential between
banks and savings institutions in transaction accounts. (Previous extension, 1977 Almanac p. 152)
Title XVII - Federal Savings and Loan Investment Authority
Simplified the investment authority for federal savings and loan associations.
7/2/09 4:33 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 5http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal78-1238538&type=hitlist&num=8
Gave such associations more authority to invest in urban areas.
Created a secondary market for rehabilitation loans through the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.
Title XVIII - National Credit Union Central Liquidity Facility
Created within the National Credit Union Administration a Central Liquidity Facility to loan money to member credit
unions facing liquidity problems.
Authorized any credit union primarily serving natural persons to become a member of the facility by subscribing to its
stock in an amount not less than one-half of 1 percent of the credit union's paid-in and unimpaired capital and surplus.
Authorized the secretary of the Treasury to lend to the facility up to $500 million in the event that it has insufficient funds
to meet liquidity needs of credit unions. Interest on the loan would be not greater than one-eighth of a percent above the
current annual market yield on outstanding United States obligations.
Title XIX - Export-Import Bank Amendments
Extended the U.S. Export-Import Bank for five years and increased the Ex-Im Bank's loan guarantee authority to $40
billion from $25 billion. (Story, p. 397)
Title XX - Electronic Fund Transfers
Spelled out the rights and responsibilities of consumers and banks concerning electronic fund transfers, and limited to
$50 the liability of a customer for unauthorized funds transfers. (Story, p. 529)
Title XXI - Effective Dates
Made all sections of the act effective 120 days after signing except as follows:
1. Titles IV and XVIII were made effective Oct. 1, 1979.
2. Title XI - cost provisions became effective Oct. 1, 1979. The Securities and Exchange Commission was exempted from
the provisions until  two years after enactment.
3. Titles XIII, XIV, XV, XVI, XVII and XIX were made effective upon signing.
4. Title XX was made effective upon expiration of 18 months from the date of signing except for two sections - defining
consumer liability and prohibiting issuance of a code, card or other means of access to an electronic funds transfer
system without a consumer request or application for it - which were made effective 90 days after signing.
Legislative History
Originally, HR 14279 contained merely a one-year extension of Regulation Q. That bill was passed by the House Oct.
11.
When the measure reached the Senate the next day, however, William Proxmire, D-Wis., chairman of the Banking,
Housing and Urban Affairs Committee, offered an entirely different version consisting of 15 titles, many of which the
Senate had previously passed separately.
Then, when it went back to the House, Fernand J. St Germain, D-R. I., seized the opportunity to attach some sections
of the Financial Institutions Regulatory Act (HR 13471), on which his Banking subcommittee had worked for most of
the year.
Only provisions of HR 13471 that the House had considered during floor debate Oct. 3–5 were added to HR 14279.
The final bill did not include a controversial provision of HR 13471 that would have allowed federally chartered
savings and loan associations to issue variable rate mortgages.
Action on HR 13471
HR 13471 (H Rept 95–1383) was approved by a lopsided 34–5 vote by the House Banking, Finance and Urban
Affairs Committee on July 18. The 200-page bill contained 20 titles designed to prevent financial excesses by bank
insiders, bar interlocking bank directorates, restrict conflicts to interest involving bank regulatory officials, control the
sale of financial institutions, and make a variety of other changes in banking laws.
The measure won broad bipartisan support in the House committee - a substantial accomplishment in light of
divisions that kept it from winning even subcommittee approval in 1977.
7/2/09 4:33 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 5http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal78-1238538&type=hitlist&num=8
The House committee bill was considerably tougher than a parallel measure (S 71) passed by the Senate in 1977,
and it contained a number of provisions not even considered by the Senate. (Senate bill, 1977 Almanac p. 150)
Although the House debated HR 13471 on Oct. 3 and went on to vote on a series of amendments Oct. 5, the bill
was put aside before action was completed. Sections of HR 13471 upon which the House had acted subsequently
were attached to HR 14279.
Document Citation
"Banking Regulation." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal78-1238538. Originally published in CQ
Almanac 1978 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1979). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal78-1238538 (accessed
July 2, 2009).
Document ID: cqal78-1238538
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal78-1238538
© 1979, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
