7/2/09 4:19 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 2http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal78-1238405&type=hitlist&num=10
Document Outline
Interstate Banking
Other Issues
Major Provisions
Foreign Bank Regulation
An article from CQ Almanac 1978
Congress gave final approval Aug. 17 to legislation imposing essentially the same regulatory system on foreign
banks operating in the United States as domestic banks already had.
The bill (HR 10899 - PL 95 - 369 ) cleared Congress when the House accepted a series of Senate
amendments adopted in that chamber on Aug. 15 (S Rept 95 –1073). The bill initially was passed by the House
on April 6 (H Rept 95–910) by a 367–2 vote. (Vote 164, p. 48-H)
Similar legislation had been passed by the House in 1976, but the Senate never acted on the earlier measure.
(1976 Almanac p. 88)
The bill was prompted by the substantial growth in foreign banking operations in the United States. In 1973, there
were about 60 foreign banks operating in the country, with assets of about $37 billion. By 1978, 122 foreign banks
were operating in the United States, and they had assets of $90 billion.
“Foreign banks in this country are not specialized institutions engaged principally in foreign trade financing on the
periphery of our banking system,” noted Sen. Thomas J. McIntyre, D-N. H. “They are in the mainstream of our
domestic banking system.”
While Congress saw a need to bring foreign banking operations under closer control, lawmakers emphasized that
the bill was not designed to correct any specific abuses.
“Fortunately, the climate in which this bill has been considered is one of relative calm,” McIntyre said. “Foreign
banks doing business in the United States have behaved in a responsible manner, and their presence here has
been a benefit to the banking industry as a whole. Enactment of a rational framework of federal regulation at this
time is appropriate and will serve to avoid future problems while enhancing the competitive environment.”
Interstate Banking
The most controversial issue in the bill concerned interstate branching by foreign banks. Under existing law, foreign
banks had the privilege of forming branches in other states, even though domestic banks couldn't do so.
While the goal of the bill was to provide equality between foreign and domestic banks, lawmakers decided that
prohibiting interstate branching by foreign banks would be inadvisable because it would reduce the flow of foreign
capital into the United States by curtailing foreign bank activity. They also noted that a restriction on foreign bank
branching would weaken the competitive position for capital of many states relative to a few states - especially New
York and California - where most foreign banks currently operated.
To resolve the problem, Congress agreed to allow interstate branching, but to allow interstate branches of foreign
banks only to accept deposits related to their international operations. That would continue the international flow of
capital while preventing the foreign banks from gaining a competitive advantage in the quest for domestic deposits,
bill proponents argued.
Other Issues
On the issue of insurance, the bill spared foreign banks the obligation to insure large “wholesale” deposits, but
required them to insure “retail” deposits of individual bank customers.
Concerning regulation of foreign banks, the bill subjected foreign banks to the same regulatory system that domestic
banks face, but it provided the Federal Reserve Board with “residual” authority to oversee the operations of foreign
banks. That system would enable some centralized supervision of foreign bank operations in the United States.
Finally, the bill provided that the Federal Reserve Board could set reserve requirements for federal and state
 
7/2/09 4:19 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 2http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal78-1238405&type=hitlist&num=10
Finally, the bill provided that the Federal Reserve Board could set reserve requirements for federal and state
branches of foreign banks having $1 billion or more in worldwide assets. Arguing that banks with assets that large
could significantly affect the flow of money in and out of the country, McIntyre said the provision was necessary to
enable the Federal Reserve Board better to control monetary policy.
Major Provisions
As cleared by Congress, HR 10899:
Allowed the Comptroller of the Currency to waive the requirement that all directors of national banks be U.S. citizens.
Amended the Edge Act, under which U.S. financial institutions are federally chartered to engage in international financial
operations, to ease capitalization requirements so that they could better compete with foreign financial entities.
Amended the Federal Reserve Act to eliminate provisions that discriminated against foreign-owned banking institutions.
Allowed foreign banks to establish federally chartered branches or agencies in states that did not prohibit foreign bank
operations and where they did not already have state-chartered branches or agencies.
Allowed foreign banks to establish branches outside of their “home states - provided the branches agreed to accept only
foreign source or international banking and finance-related deposits.
Gave foreign banks the option of applying for deposit insurance, but required insurance by foreign banks accepting
deposits of less than $100,000 in states in which deposits of state banks were required to be insured.
Authorized the Federal Reserve Board to impose reserve requirements on foreign banks.
Subjected foreign banks to the same system of regulation as domestic banks, but gave the Federal Reserve Board
residual authority to examine foreign banks.
Made future U.S. operations of foreign banks subject to Bank Holding Company Act limitations on their non-banking
activities. (Banking holding company background, 1970 Almanac p. 874)
Ordered a study of the extent to which United States banks operating overseas were subject to discrimination.
Document Citation
"Foreign Bank Regulation." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal78-1238405. Originally published in
CQ Almanac 1978 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1979). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal78-1238405
(accessed July 2, 2009).
Document ID: cqal78-1238405
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal78-1238405
© 1979, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
