7/2/09 4:43 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal80-1176073&type=hitlist&num=7
Document Outline
Monetary Controls
Legislative History
Major Provisions
Broad Banking Deregulation Bill Approved
An article from CQ Almanac 1980
President Carter March 31 signed legislation (HR 4986 — PL 96 - 221 ) making far-reaching changes in
federal regulation of the nation's banking industry.
Treasury Secretary G. William Miller called the bill the “most important legislation dealing with banking and finance
in nearly half a century.”
The measure permitted banks and savings institutions to pay higher interest rates on consumer deposits by phasing
out over six years interest rate ceilings set under “Regulation Q.”
Existing law limited interest rates on savings accounts to 5.25 percent for commercial banks and 5.5 percent for
savings and loan associations — far below market levels. Elimination of the ceilings would “allow competition of
higher rates for savers,” Carter said, and “help improve our nation's very low savings rate.”
To offset the loss of their .25 percent interest rate advantage, the legislation gave savings and loans new consumer
lending powers and increased the size of mortgage loans they could make.
Monetary Controls
The new law also gave the Federal Reserve more control over the nation's money supply by establishing uniform
reserve requirements for all depository institutions, including those that were not members of the Federal Reserve
System. Previously, only Fed members were required to maintain non-interest-bearing reserves against deposits,
and many banks had left the system to avoid the requirement.
Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul A. Volcker told the Senate Banking Committee Feb. 4 that the nation was
experiencing the beginning of an “avalanche” of bank defections from the Fed. He reported that during the fourth
quarter of 1979 and the first few weeks of 1980, 69 banks with $7 billion in deposits had given notice of withdrawal.
Volcker stressed that new reserve requirements were necessary as part of the central bank's effort to tighten the
money supply and bring inflation under control. In addition, he said, “It's unfair to burden member banks in ways that
non-member banks are not burdened.”
The new law required reserves on all checking and checking-type accounts and on non-personal time deposits. It
eliminated existing reserve requirements on savings deposits and consumer-type time deposits.
The bill also permitted financial institutions to continue offering several kinds of interest-bearing checking-type
services that faced a court-ordered March 31 ban. It authorized all banks to offer interest-bearing NOW (negotiable
order of withdrawal) checking accounts beginning in 1981. Banks had been prohibited from paying interest on
checking accounts since 1933.
Other provisions of the legislation increased maximum federal deposit insurance from $40,000 to $100,000, modified
federal truth-in-lending laws and overrode state usury limits on mortgages and some agriculture and business loans.
Legislative History
HR 4986 was the culmination of a decade-long campaign to revamp the nation's financial system which began with
the recommendations of President Nixon's Commission on Financial Structure and Regulation in 1971. The
commission's proposals included abolition of interest rate ceilings, expanded powers for banks and thrift institutions,
direct incentives for housing investment and reorganizations of federal bank regulatory agencies. Legislation
embodying some key commission recommendations passed the Senate in 1975, but the House never acted on the
sweeping measure. Congress did approve a hodgepodge of banking law changes in 1978. (Background, 1975
Almanac p. 161, 1976 Almanac p. 88, 1978 Almanac p. 300)
 
7/2/09 4:43 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal80-1176073&type=hitlist&num=7
1979 Action
As originally passed by the House in September 1979, HR 4986 aimed only to avert a federal appeals court ruling
that bank regulatory agencies had exceeded their authority in allowing financial institutions to offer what amounted to
interest-bearing checking accounts. The court gave Congress until Dec. 31, 1979, to authorize the popular check-
type services, which included the automatic transfer of funds from savings to checking accounts at banks; remote
service units for the withdrawal of funds from savings and loans; and “share draft” accounts at credit unions. (1979
Almanac p. 321)
In addition to authorizing the specific services affected by the court ruling, the House bill extended authority to offer
NOW accounts nationwide. NOW accounts previously had been authorized in only seven states.
The Senate passed the bill in November 1979, after adding a number of amendments, including provisions to phase
out interest rate limits on deposits and provide new lending powers to savings institutions.
The House in turn attached provisions dealing with Federal Reserve membership and reserve requirements.
When the two chambers failed to reach a compromise on the vastly different measures before adjournment in 1979,
they extended the checking accounts through March 31 (PL 96 -161) and set hearings on Fed membership and
interest rate limits early in 1980.
Their differences were resolved in a whirlwind conference March 5.
The House adopted the conference report (H Rept 96 –842) on the banking measure by an overwhelming 380–
13 margin March 27, and the Senate cleared it by voice vote the next day — ending nearly a year of deliberation on
the legislation. (Vote 147, p. 44-H)
Major Provisions
As signed into law, the Depository Institutions Deregulation and Monetary Control Act of 1980 (HR 4986 — PL 96
- 221):
Monetary Control
Required all depository institutions, including those that are not members of the Federal Reserve System, to comply
with reserve requirements established by the Federal Reserve Board on 1) transaction accounts (accounts that can be
used to make third-party payments), and 2) non-personal time deposits (transferable time deposits or deposits owned
even in part by a depositor that is not a person, such as a corporation).
For transaction accounts, required reserves of 3 percent on the first $25 million of deposits and 12 percent on deposits
exceeding that amount; permitted the board to vary the requirements on transaction deposits exceeding $25 million
within a range of 8–14 percent.
Provided for annual adjustments in the $25 million base to reflect changes in total transaction deposits.
For non-personal time deposits, required reserves of 3 percent; permitted the board to vary that requirement within a
range of 0–9 percent.
Phased in the reserve requirements over eight years for non-member institutions and four years for member banks,
including banks that were Federal Reserve members as of July 1, 1979, but subsequently withdrew.
Required that new types of deposit accounts be immediately subject to reserve requirements.
Empowered the Federal Reserve Board to impose extra reserve requirements in “extraordinary circumstances” for a
period of 180 days.
Authorized the board to require supplemental reserves of up to 4 percent on transaction accounts if necessary to
conduct effective monetary policy; required consultation with other regulatory bodies and a vote by five or more board
members to initiate such supplemental reserves.
Required the board to pay interest on such supplemental reserves at a rate not exceeding the average rate earned on its
securities portfolio.
Extended reserve requirements to foreign branches, subsidiaries and international facilities of non-member banks to the
same extent required of member banks.
Instructed the Federal Reserve to price its services, beginning 6–18 months following enactment of the bill,  and make
them available to members and non-members alike.
Entitled any depository institution holding transaction or non-personal time deposits to use Federal Reserve discount
and borrowing services.
7/2/09 4:43 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal80-1176073&type=hitlist&num=7
Eased existing collateral requirements for Federal Reserve notes; authorized the Federal Reserve to buy and sell
obligations issued by foreign governments.
Depository Institutions Deregulation
Transferred the authority to set interest rate ceilings on deposits from individual regulatory bodies to a six-member
Depository Institutions Deregulation Committee made up of the heads of the Federal Reserve Board, the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC), the Federal Home Loan Bank Board (FHLBB), the National Credit Union (NCUA) and
the treasury secretary, plus the comptroller of the currency as a non-voting member.
Directed the committee to phase out interest rate ceilings over a six-year period, increasing permissible rates to market
levels “as soon as feasible”; retained the .25 percent interest rate advantage for savings institutions during the phase-out
period.
Set “targets” for the phase-out of interest rate ceilings of one-quarter percentage point within 18 months of enactment
and one-half percentage point during the third, fourth, fifth and sixth years of enactment.
Authorized the committee to create new classes of accounts for depository institutions, on which differential rates need
not apply.
Interest-Bearing Checking Accounts
Permitted federally insured commercial banks, savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks and savings banks
to offer negotiable order of withdrawal (NOW) accounts, effective Dec. 31, 1980.
Permitted commercial banks to offer automatic transfer accounts beginning March 31, 1980.
Permitted federal savings and loans to operate remote service units beginning March 31, 1980.
Permitted federal and state chartered, federally insured credit unions to offer share draft accounts as of March 31,
1980.
Authorized federal savings and loans, federal mutual savings banks and federal credit unions to offer pre-authorized
extensions of credit tied to NOW accounts after deposit interest rate ceilings were phased out.
Thrift Institutions' Powers
Permitted federal savings and loan associations to invest up to 20 percent of their assets in consumer loans,
commercial paper or corporate debt securities.
Permitted federal savings and loan associations to make residential real estate loans to the same extent as national
banks, without geographic restriction and on either first or second mortgages.
Replaced the existing $75,000 limit on residential mortgage loans by federal savings and loans with a series of
requirements based on the ratio of the amount of the loan to the appraised value of the real estate: 66–2/3 percent for
unimproved real estate; 75 percent for property being improved; and 90 percent for improved real estate Loans could
exceed 90 percent if they were for low-income housing or under certain other limited circumstances.
Permitted savings and loans to invest in, redeem or hold shares or certificates of open-end investment companies, such
as money market funds.
Allowed savings and loans to offer credit card services and trust and fiduciary services.
Authorized savings and loans to issue dividend-paying mutual capital certificates, and required that such certificates be
counted as assets eligible for inclusion in the federal insurance reserve.
Permitted federal mutual savings banks to invest up to 5 percent of their assets in commercial, corporate or business
loans made within the bank's home state or within 75 miles of the bank's home office.
Permitted credit unions to make loans for the purchase of cooperative apartments or homes.
Allowed credit unions to raise their lending rates to 15 percent per year.
Permitted the National Credit Union Administration, during periods of high market interest rates, to allow credit unions to
raise their lending rates to more than 15 percent for periods of not more than 18 months.
Required a report within three months of enactment on the problems faced by depository institutions with low yield
mortgages in their investment portfolios.
7/2/09 4:43 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal80-1176073&type=hitlist&num=7
State Usury Laws
Permanently pre-empted state usury ceilings on first mortgage loans made by depository institutions, mortgage banks
and lenders approved by the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Allowed states three years to enact legislation overriding the mortgage pre-emption.
Pre-empted for three years state usury ceilings on agriculture and business loans above $25,000, unless a state
overrode the pre-emption; imposed a ceiling of 5 percent over the basic Federal Reserve discount rate on such loans.
Allowed all federally insured depository institutions to charge 1 percent more than the discount rate on any loan
regardless of state usury limitations, unless the state reimposed ceilings. National banks already had this power.
Other Provisions
Raised the limit on federal deposit insurance from $40,000 to $100,000.
Revised federal truth-in-lending laws. (Story, p. 236)
Authorized the comptroller of the currency to extend by five years the current five-year period during which a national
bank may hold real estate if it had made a “good faith” effort to dispose of it or could show that its sale would harm the
bank's financial status.
Allowed the comptroller to permit development and improvement of such real estate if necessary for a bank to recover
its investment.
Extended for up to two years the Dec. 31, 1980, deadline for sale of real estate by bank holding companies, as required
under the Bank Holding Company Act.
Authorized the comptroller of the currency to revoke the trust powers of a national bank if those powers were exercised
unlawfully or unsoundly or not used for five years.
Allowed national banks to invest as much as 10 percent of their capital accounts in the stock of an FDIC-insured bank
owned exclusively by other banks.
Barred any national bank from owning more than 5 percent of the voting securities of such a bank.
Placed a moratorium through Oct. 1, 1981, on the establishment of trust companies across state lines.
Directed financial regulatory agencies to cut regulatory costs and burdens and consider alternatives when issuing new
regulations.
Imposed a moratorium until  July 1, 1980, on foreign purchases of U.S. depository institutions; exempted buyers with
applications for purchase pending before March 5; acquisitions of less than $100 million; and transfers of interests
already under foreign control.
Document Citation
"Broad Banking Deregulation Bill  Approved." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal80-1176073.
Originally published in CQ Almanac 1980 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1981).
http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal80-1176073 (accessed July 2, 2009).
Document ID: cqal80-1176073
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal80-1176073
© 1981, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
