2/8/10 2:21 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 12file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL96-…20Community%20Development%20Amendments%20of%201979.webarchive
Housing Authorization
An article from CQ Almanac 1979
Document Outline
Provisions
Committee Action
House Floor Action
Senate Floor Action
Conference Highlights
In its 1979 revision of the nation's housing laws, Congress clamped a lid on many government-subsidized housing programs
while providing more funds for President Carter's key urban grant program.
The omnibus housing authorization bill (HR 3875 — PL 96 - 153 ) also made a sweeping revision of regulations governing
the sale of land across state borders.
As requested by Carter, Congress boosted the authorization for the urban development action grant (UDAG) program from $400
million to $675 million in fiscal 1980. The program was designed to encourage private investment in commercial or industrial
projects in financially ailing urban areas.
The bill authorized $1.14 billion in additional contract authority for low income housing assistance during fiscal 1980. That sum
was expected to fund 240,000–265,000 units under the Section 8 rent subsidy and public housing programs — down from an
estimated 360,000 units in 1979.
Harrison A. Williams Jr., D-N.J., chairman of the Senate Banking Subcommittee on Housing, called the authorization “one of the
smallest efforts in assisted housing in recent years.”
Other provisions of the bill increased funding for homes for the elderly and handicapped and hiked the mortgage ceiling under
the federal insurance program to adjust for inflation.
And the measure required developers who provided federally subsidized low-income housing to maintain that property for such
poor residents for the full terms of their contracts with the government.
It was this last contract requirement that kept the housing conference “at sword's point for so long,” as Les AuCoin, D-Ore., a
member of the House Banking Subcommittee on Housing, put it.
Conferees began meeting July 20 to reconcile House and Senate versions of the Housing and Community Development
Amendments of 1979, but a compromise was not reached until Dec. 13.
That stalemate put the bill more than two-and-a-half months behind its Oct. 1 deadline. The House had passed its measure June
7 and the Senate passed its version July 13.
The Senate approved the conference report (H Rept 96-706) Dec. 18 by voice vote, and the House voted 361-29 Dec. 19 to
send the bill to the White House for the president's signature. (Vote 663, p. 196-H)
Provisions
As signed into law Dec. 21, the Housing and Community Development Amendments of 1979 (HR 3875–PL 96 - 153)
contained the following provisions, effective Oct. 1, 1979:
Title I. Community and Neighborhood Development and Conservation
Section 312 Rehabilitation Loans. Authorized $140 million in fiscal 1980 for loans to improve existing housing, with up to $75 million
of that amount earmarked for multi-family homes. The 1979 authorization for Section 312 loans was $245 million.
Comprehensive Planning Grants. Authorized $50 million to help fund city or area planning projects.
Community Development Block Grants. Increased the funds tagged for distribution to smaller cities from $250 million to $275 million
in fiscal 1980.
2/8/10 2:21 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 12file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL96-…20Community%20Development%20Amendments%20of%201979.webarchive
in fiscal 1980.
Transferred $10 billion from the HUD's “discretionary fund” into the basic grant portion of the program to help offset the increase in
grants to smaller cities.
Provided that local governments only partly located within an urban county were eligible for funds from the urban, rather than non-
metropolitan, portion of the block grant program.
Urban Development Action Grants. Increased the authorization level for the UDAG program from the 1979 level of $400 million to
$675 million.
Restricted the use of UDAG funds to projects that would not be initiated without federal aid and which could not replace the federal
funds with other types of local or private funding.
Allowed financially healthy cities with “pockets of poverty” to apply for UDAG aid, but limited such grants to 20 percent of total UDAG
funds.
Required a city to prove that pocket of poverty residents had incomes less than 80 percent of the local average and that 30 percent of
the residents of the area had incomes 30 percent lower than the national poverty rate.
Required that in a city with at least 50,000 residents, a pocket of poverty have 10,000 residents or 10 percent of the total city
population, whichever was less. For cities with fewer than 50,000 residents, the poor area must have 2,500 residents or 10 percent of
the population, whichever was greater.
Required that an applicant city provide fire, police, sanitation and road repair services to the poor area comparable to those in other
areas of the city.
Stipulated that cities applying for UDAG funds to aid a pocket of poverty match 20 percent of the cost through local, state or federal
funds.
Relaxed the definition of a city under the UDAG program to allow towns and townships to participate.
Urban Homesteading. Authorized HUD to reimburse the Veterans Administration and Agriculture Department for property they turned
over for use in approved urban homesteading projects.
Neighborhood Self-help Development Program. Authorized $13.5 million for the neighborhood self-help development program, and
provided that 10 percent of these funds could be awarded as “innovative grants” without the full certification of the local government.
Livable Cities. Reduced the authorization for the livable cities program, designed to encourage arts and cultural activities at the
neighborhood level, from $10 million to $5 million.
Condominium Report. Required the HUD secretary to report within six months on the effects of condominium or cooperative
conversion on the rental housing market.
Title II. Housing Assistance Programs
Authorized $1,140,661,000 in fiscal 1980 in new contract authority for Section 8 and public housing.
Stipulated that $195,053,000 of that contract authority be used for public housing, with $1,063,013,000 for Section 8 housing and not
less than $50 million for modernization of existing units.
Authorized $741.5 million in operating subsidies in fiscal 1980 for public housing and Section 8 programs.
Tenant Contribution. Increased a tenant's rent contribution to between 20 and 30 percent of his income, except for very low income
families who must pay between 15–25 percent of their income.
Exempted families currently occupying public or Section 8 housing from the rent contribution increase.
Section 101 Rent Supplements. Consolidated the Section 101 rent supplement program with the Section 8 program, but stipulated
that no Section 101 tenant pay more rent under the new arrangement than he paid previously.
Section 236 Rental and Cooperative Housing Program. Changed the income requirement for new participants in the Section 236
rental and cooperative housing program to conform with Section 8 requirements.
Troubled Housing Projects. Authorized $82 million — up from $74 million in 1979 – for operating subsidies for troubled multi-family
housing projects.
Tenant Selection. Provided that families occupying substandard housing or who were involuntarily displaced had priority for public
housing and Section 8 programs.
2/8/10 2:21 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 12file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL96-…20Community%20Development%20Amendments%20of%201979.webarchive
Displaced HUD Tenants. Assured any tenant displaced from HUD-owned projects as a result of sale or repair the right to obtain other
government-assisted housing.
Energy Requirements. Required maximum weatherization in modernization projects, and required that new or substantially
rehabilitated projects be equipped with heating and cooling systems selected on the basis of long-term cost.
Section 235 Homeownership Assistance. Provided that low-income families who, without assistance would be displaced from
apartments being converted to condominiums or cooperatives, receive priority for home ownership assistance, a program that provided
government subsidies on mortgages for low- and moderate-income homebuyers.
Provided that such mortgages could be insured up to 20 percent above the maximum if the homes were in an area undergoing major
renovation.
Broadened eligibility by dropping requirements that applicants be displaced families, families with five or more minor children or
families living in public housing.
Minimum Rent Studies. Required HUD to submit two studies to Congress: comparing subsidized rents to rents paid privately by
persons of the same income; and examining whether to require minimum rent payments from residents of government housing
projects.
Title III. Program Amendments and Extensions
Research Authorization. Authorized $50.3 million in fiscal 1980 for housing department research.
FHA General Insurance Fund. Increased the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) fund to cover defaults on insured mortgages by
$93 million.
Section 202 Program of Housing for the Elderly and Handicapped. Authorized $3.8 billion in fiscal 1980, $4.8 billion in 1981 and
$5.8 billion in 1982 for cumulative loan authority for housing for the elderly and the handicapped.
Required a report by HUD to Congress within six months on the housing needs of the elderly and handicapped in rural areas.
Required a study by HUD to Congress within six months on ways to reduce costs of the Section 202 housing program.
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation. Authorized $12 million in fiscal 1980 for the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation.
Usury Exemption. Exempted from state or local usury limits any loan, mortgage or advance made under the National Housing Act.
Mortgage Study. Required a HUD study of alternative mortgages to the fixed-rate loans insured under the National Housing Act.
Graduated Payment Mortgage Program. Limited participation in the graduated payment mortgage (GPM) program to borrowers who
had not owned a home within the last three years.
Specified that the balance of principal and interest could never exceed 113 percent of the original appraised value of the home.
Limited the number of GPMs issued each year to 10 percent of the total single family mortgages insured by the Federal Housing
Administration or 50,000 mortgages, whichever was greater.
Lowered the down-payment requirement for GPM borrowers from 8 percent to between 3 and 5 percent.
Mortgage Ceiling Increase. Increased the ceiling on FHA-insured loans for all types of single-family homes to $67,500, up from the
current limit of $60,000; to $76,000 for two-family homes; to $92,000 for three-family homes; and $107,000 for four-family homes.
Specified that in high-cost areas, the ceiling could be exceeded by up to 75 percent. And in certain other cases, reviewed by HUD, the
limit could be exceeded by up to 90 percent.
Mobile Home Loans. Increased the maximum loan for a single-module mobile home from $16,000 to $18,000 and $27,000 for a
mobile home with at least two modules.
Increased the maximum loan for a single-module mobile home on an undeveloped lot to $24,000 and $33,000 for a double-module
home on a similar lot.
Increased the maximum loan for a single-module mobile home on a developed lot to $27,500 and to $36,500 for a double-module
mobile home on a similar lot.
Increased the maximum amount of mortgage insurance for a mobile home site from $3,900 to $8,000 per space.
Mortgage Limits for Multi-family Housing. Increased the maximum mortgage for a family unit in a building without an elevator to
$44,170 and to $53,690 for a unit in a building with an elevator.
2/8/10 2:21 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 12file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL96-…20Community%20Development%20Amendments%20of%201979.webarchive
$44,170 and to $53,690 for a unit in a building with an elevator.
Hospital Combination Financing. Prohibited the use of government loan insurance or mortgage guarantees to collateralize tax-
exempt bonds, except for certain hospitals that already had begun to arrange for such refinancing.
Thermal Requirements. Rejected HUD's temporary thermal requirements for masonry construction, and requested that final
regulations be issued within one month after enactment.
Paperwork Reduction. Required the departments of HUD and Agriculture and the Veterans Administration to consolidate and simplify
housing forms.
Loans by Savings and Loans. Raised the ceiling on mortgages granted by federally chartered savings and loan associations from
$60,000 to $75,000.
Loans in Outlying Areas. Permitted government-insured loans to be granted to rural borrowers with homes located next to an all-
weather public road, rather than a highway, as in current law.
Lowered the minimum lot size for a farm home that received government mortgage insurance from five acres to two and one-half.
Title IV. Interstate Land Sales
Cooling-off Period. Lengthened the “cooling off period” during which a consumer could reconsider his contract from three to seven
days.
Statute of Limitations. Tightened the statute of limitations to provide three years in which to file suit against a developer after a
violation of interstate land sale laws was discovered.
Criminal Penalties. Increased the maximum penalty for violating the act from $5,000 to $10,000 and from five to seven years of
imprisonment.
Exemptions. Exempted subdivisions of less than 100 lots from reporting and disclosure requirements.
Exempted subdivisions of less than 25 lots from all provisions of the act.
Exempted from registration and disclosure requirements the sale or lease of lots where each non-adjacent parcel of land contained no
more than 20 lots.
Exempted from registration and disclosure requirements developments where all lots were 20 acres or more.
Exempted the sale or lease of the first 12 lots of a larger subdivision where no more than 12 units were sold in any calendar year.
Exempted from registration and disclosure requirements a subdivision of less than 300 lots when a lot was sold to a resident of
another state whose principal residence was within the same Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area.
Title V. Rural Housing
Authorization. Placed a limit for the first time on loan and guarantee authority for rural housing, authorizing $4.5 billion in fiscal 1980.
Stipulated that of that total, not less than $3 billion be used for subsidized loans for rental or cooperative housing for low- and
moderate-income people and the elderly.
Section 516 Domestic Farm Labor Housing. Provided $30 million in fiscal 1980 for grants for housing for domestic farm workers.
Advance Expense Payments. Authorized $5 million in 1980 for advances to certain FmHA borrowers for taxes, insurance and other
payments.
Rental Assistance. Provided that up to 70 percent of the units in Farmers' Home Administration projects could receive rental
assistance.
Prepayment of Section 514 and 515 Loans. Permitted prepayment of loans by private investors who built low-income rural housing
with government financing only if the investor agreed to retain the project for its original use for 20 years from the date the loan was
made.
Provided that, in the case of loans made to investors prior to the date of enactment of the 1979 housing amendments, FmHA could
accept prepayment if low-and moderate-income and elderly tenants could maintain residency for the length of the contract or had
affordable alternative housing made available to them.
For projects with more than 10 units, provided that an investor could prepay only if he met the other conditions and if FmHA
determined that conversion of the property would have no adverse impact on the area's supply of housing for low- and moderate-
2/8/10 2:21 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 12file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL96-…20Community%20Development%20Amendments%20of%201979.webarchive
determined that conversion of the property would have no adverse impact on the area's supply of housing for low- and moderate-
income people.
Homeownership Subsidies. Limited homeownership subsidies to $500 million in 1980, and indicated the program would not be
funded in fiscal 1981.
Refinancing. Approved new refinancing authority for loans that were five years old or less if the failure to refinance would cause a
borrower to lose his home or deprive him of a “decent, safe and sanitary dwelling.”
Section 504 Home Repair Loans. Increased the authorization for home repair loans for low-income families from $5,000 to $7,500.
Eligibility. Required that, “to the extent practicable,” at least 30 percent of participants in FmHA programs have incomes below 50
percent of the area median.
Title VI. Miscellaneous
Federal Insurance Administration. Extended HUD authority through Sept. 30, 1981, to provide new crime, riot and flood insurance.
Permitted HUD to continue existing crime and riot insurance through Sept. 30, 1984.
Provided subsidized flood insurance under the emergency program for communities that had no actuarial rates or elevation studies.
Transferred the position of federal insurance administrator from HUD to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
Committee Action
In reporting the fiscal 1980 housing authorization May 15 (HR 3875 – H Rept 96-154, S 1149 — S Rept 96-164), the House and
Senate Banking committees proposed changes designed to make sure that housing dollars were used primarily to benefit those
families least able to afford shelter on their own. Proposed spending ceilings were well below fiscal 1979 levels for most federal
housing programs.
Assisted Housing Proposals
Both committees proposed key changes in the requirements for low-income families to obtain federal housing assistance under
the Section 8 rental subsidy and public housing programs.
HR 3875 increased to 30 percent of adjusted gross income (from 25 percent) the maximum tenant contribution to rent for families
whose incomes exceeded 50 percent of the median level for an area.
The proposed rent hikes would be on a sliding scale based on income, so that, for example, a family at 65 percent of median
income would pay a maximum of 27 percent of adjusted income.
According to the committee report, the proposed hike would have limited impact. Only 7 percent of the tenants in the Section 8
program had incomes above 50 percent of the median, while only 12 percent had incomes above 50 percent of the median in the
public housing program.
“In a period of great concern over the cost of our assisted housing programs,” the report said, “the committee believes that some
recognition should be made of the differential ability of families to pay for their housing.”
The Senate committee, citing the same budgetary constraints, proposed reducing the eligibility ceiling from 80 percent of the
area's median income to 70 percent.
“The committee believes that eligibility has been extended too broadly in light of the current budget restrictions that face us,” the
report said.
The Senate committee estimated that the lower income ceiling would reduce the number of families eligible for Section 8 rental
subsidies and public housing from 30 million to 25 million.
As drafted by the committee, the new income ceiling would not apply to families currently residing in federally assisted units.
Spending Ceilings Reduced
Both committees recommended an authorization for fiscal 1980 of $1,286,155,000 in new contributions for assisted housing,
enough to allow about 300,000 units of Section 8 and public housing.
The House committee estimated that the $1.3 billion in new contract authority would require about $28.8 billion in budget
authority to cover the cost of the housing contracts, which ran as long as 40 years. The Senate committee estimated budget
authority at $30.4 billion. The first fiscal 1980 budget resolution contemplated $25.8 billion in budget authority for the programs.
The proposed fiscal 1980 authorization was $145 million above the level requested by the Carter administration for fiscal 1980.
The administration had said its spending ceiling would provide enough money for about 300,000 units, but the committees said
the administration proposal did not reflect the impact of inflation on housing.
2/8/10 2:21 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 12file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL96-…20Community%20Development%20Amendments%20of%201979.webarchive
The 300,000 units proposed for fiscal 1980 were well below the estimated 360,000 units the Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD) expected to assist during fiscal 1979.
Both committees authorized $741.5 million for public housing operating subsidies, as requested by the administration. The fiscal
1979 authorization was $729 million.
The committees proposed sharply lower ceilings in fiscal 1980 for the highly popular Section 312 housing rehabilitation loan
program. The House committee set spending at $150 million, while the Senate committee authorized $130 million, the level
sought by the Carter administration.
Urban Development Action Grants
Both committees approved an increase in the spending ceiling for urban development action grants from the fiscal 1979 level of
$400 million to $675 million, as requested by the administration. The increased spending was proposed as part of the
administration's urban revitalization effort.
The Senate bill also included a provision designed to allow up to 20 percent of urban development action grant funds to be used
in economically healthy cities that had socalled “pockets of poverty.”
The Senate proposed a similar provision during debate on the fiscal 1979 housing authorization, but was rebuffed by the House.
(Background, 1978 Almanac p. 310)
Unlike the earlier proposal, however, the new amendment would require that action grants awarded to cities and towns with
pockets of poverty be used for the direct benefit of the distressed areas.
Interstate Land Sales
The Senate committee, prodded largely by land developers and the real estate industry, included in its bill a package of
amendments designed to ease the regulatory and reporting requirements for land developers whose business attracted clients
from neighboring states. (Previous legislation, 1968 Almanac p. 318)
The key sections of the Senate amendments would add two new exemptions from the registration and disclosure requirements of
the act. The first exemption, for a sales operation intrastate in nature, would be available on a lot-by-lot basis if 1) the lot was
free and clear of liens, encumbrances and adverse claims, 2) an on-site inspection had been made by the potential buyer and 3)
each purchase or lease agreement clearly described the party responsible for providing specific facilities.
The second exemption, designed for interstate sales, would apply to developers of subdivisions of up to 500 lots when they sold
to buyers who lived within 100 miles of the property, provided the three conditions in the first exemption were met and the
developer also:
Designated an agent for the service of process within the home state of the purchaser.
Provided simple notification to the HUD secretary that all other requirements had been met.
The House committee took a different approach, adopting a mixture of amendments. Some would reduce or end registration
requirements for small developers. For example, one section would raise the maximum size of a subdivision exempt from the
registration and disclosure requirements of the act from 50 to 100 lots.
But other proposed changes would increase the scope of the law, and toughen HUD's enforcement powers. One particularly
controversial proposal would give the HUD secretary cease and desist powers. Another section would extend the act's coverage
to subdivisions with fairly large lots. Existing law exempted subdivisions where all lots were five or more acres in size. The
proposed amendment would exempt subdivisions where at least 90 percent of the lots were 40 acres or more in size and any
remaining lots were no less than 30 acres in size.
Legislative Review
Accepting a Carter administration proposal, the Senate bill would repeal a key section of the legislative review procedures
established by Congress for housing regulations in 1978.
The section, which allowed either Banking committee to delay proposed regulations for up to three months, was considered the
most important element in the legislative oversight process worked out in 1978 by House and Senate conferees after weeks of
haggling. (Further details, 1978 Almanac p. 307)
The House bill included a different provision designed to invoke the legislative review process for the first time. The provision
would block final HUD regulations dealing with minimum property standards for masonry construction.
The committee said it included the provision because it was concerned that HUD, in preparing the new, tougher standards to
make single-family homes more energy efficient, only conducted a cost-benefit analysis for frame construction and did not do a
similar analysis for masonry construction.
The committee said HUD acknowledged the oversight and subsequently directed the National Bureau of Standards to conduct a
cost-benefit analysis for masonry construction. However, the committee said, the National Bureau of Standards report would not
2/8/10 2:21 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 12file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL96-…20Community%20Development%20Amendments%20of%201979.webarchive
cost-benefit analysis for masonry construction. However, the committee said, the National Bureau of Standards report would not
be ready until about two months after the HUD regulations were supposed to take effect.
“Given the scope of these standards and their potential impact on national building practices, the department should have
completed such a critical analysis prior to issuing the standards as final,” the committee said.
Therefore, it included a provision in HR 3712 delaying the regulations for three months. The committee said that should give HUD
enough time to review the cost-benefit study and, if necessary, make changes in the standards for masonry construction.
Other Highlights
Both HR 3875 and S 1149 would extend basic HUD-Federal Housing Administration programs for one year, through Sept. 30,
1980.
Both measures would also increase FHA single-family mortgage loan ceilings, although each bill proposed different limits.
 Existing House Senate
One-family $60,000 $ 65,000 $ 70,000
Two-family 65,000 73,500 80,000
Three-family 65,000 87,500 99,000
Four-family 75,000 100,000 120,000
House Floor Action
The House passed HR 3875 June 7 by a 355-36 vote. (Vote 176, p. 56-H)
The House bill authorized $1,286,155,000 for low-income public housing and Section 8 rental subsidies in the fiscal year
beginning Oct. 1. Thomas L. Ashley, D-Ohio, chairman of the Banking Subcommittee on Housing and Community Development,
said that would “fund up to 300,000 units of low-income assisted housing, down from the 400,000 unit target provided in prior
years.”
‘Fiscal Restraint’
While he regretted the need for the 30 percent cut, Ashley said, “It was our reluctant judgment that in this year of fiscal restraint
… the reduction in the number of families to be assisted was necessary.”
HR 3875 also authorized $675 million for the urban development action grant program, a $275 million increase requested by the
Carter administration. The House rejected an effort to transfer $200 million from the action grant program to the broader
community development block grant program. (Background, 1977 Almanac p. 126)
Before passing the bill, the House rejected committee-approved language that would have permitted HUD to halt fraudulent
practices in interstate land sales.
And, in the year's first floor test of the issue, it rejected an effort to remove Davis-Bacon Act prevailing wage requirements from
two federal housing programs. (Davis-Bacon, p. 307)
Prevailing Wage Requirements
In a 155-244 vote June 6, the House rejected an amendment by George Hansen, R-Idaho, to waive Davis-Bacon Act
requirements for payment at locally prevailing wage rates to construction workers on Indian housing projects and residential
rehabilitation projects carried out by nonprofit neighborhood organizations. (Vote 171, p. 54-H)
“This is not an amendment to repeal Davis-Bacon,” Hansen maintained. “… This is not an amendment against the unions — this
is an amendment that is against the shoddy application of the prevailing wage provisions to two particular housing programs.”
Adoption of the amendment would show that “we are sincere about removing the restrictions that are preventing minorities and
the less fortunate from having the most and best housing units available for the money,” Hansen said.
But Frank Thompson Jr., D-N.J., chairman of the Labor Subcommittee on Labor-Management Relations, retorted, “The fact is that
the real purpose of this amendment is to undercut the real wages of workers on certain government construction projects.
“This is just one of the numerous peripheral attacks on Davis-Bacon,” he added.
Urban Development Action Grants
The amendment to transfer $200 million from the urban development action grant (UDAG) program to the block grant program
failed on a 159-263 vote. (Vote 165, p. 54-H)
It was offered by Don Ritter, R-Pa., who said he did “not believe that, within the limited funds available, we should starve the
basic block grant program and at the same time allow gluttony for UDAG.”
L. H. Fountain, D-N.C., chairman of the Government Operations subcommittee with oversight responsibility for the program,
2/8/10 2:21 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 8 of 12file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL96-…20Community%20Development%20Amendments%20of%201979.webarchive
agreed: “I just cannot support a 69 percent funding increase for the UDAG program at a time when HUD seems to be making
some unnecessary and highly questionable grants under the existing authorization.”
Les AuCoin, D-Ore., urged defeat of the amendment. “We are either going to focus the money where the documented need
exists,” he said, “… or we can just funnel the money out [under the block grant program] in a formula that requires no city to get
off its hands, put its thinking cap on, or come up with some creative ideas. The latter is what UDAG does, and it deserves to be
supported.”
The House adopted, 312-102, an amendment to make up to 20 percent of action grant funds available to cities and urban
counties that contained pockets of poverty. The amendment, offered by Stephen L. Neal, D-N.C., was similar to language included
in the Senate version of the bill. (Vote 166, p. 54-H)
Ashley opposed efforts to expand eligibility for the program. “During our subcommittee markup and before the full committee, not
a single member asked to be heard with respect to pockets of poverty,” he said.
Interstate Land Sales
Carroll A. Campbell Jr., R-S.C., offered an amendment to strike language that permitted the HUD secretary to issue cease and
desist orders prohibiting the sale or lease of property by a developer who violated anti-fraud provisions of the Interstate Land
Sales Act. The provision also authorized HUD to issue temporary restraining orders and to assess civil penalties for a violation of
those orders.
Campbell argued that the provision usurped judicial authority, but Ashley insisted that HUD needed the additional powers to be
able to respond quickly to deceptive land sales practices.
The House backed Campbell, first approving the amendment by a 129–73 teller vote and later ratifying that action by a 245-145
recorded vote. (Vote 175, p. 56-H)
In other action, the House adopted:
By a 311-79 vote, an amendment to prevent Social Security cost-of-living increases from being counted as income when calculating
rent in assisted housing. (Vote 174, p. 56-H)
By a 366-16 vote, an amendment designed to reduce paperwork in housing programs. (Vote 173, p. 56-H)
Senate Floor Action
The Senate passed HR 3875 July 13 by an 82-0 vote, after amending the House-passed measure to incorporate the text of S
1149 and two other bills: S 903, extending Federal Insurance Administration programs, and S 1064, the rural housing
authorization. (Vote 164, p. 30-S)
Major floor skirmishes came over a provision of S 1149 exempting federal loans and mortgages from state usury ceilings and on
an amendment waiving part of the Davis-Bacon Act for certain neighborhood improvement projects.
State Usury Ceilings
Robert Morgan, D-N.C., blasted the Senate Banking Committee for “pre-empting the rights of the states to govern usury in their
own states.”
In a speech embellished with references to Thomas Jefferson and Alexander Hamilton, Morgan warned that the usury law
exemption could set a precedent.
“We are going to pre-empt this one and pre-empt that one — until we will soon be pre-empting all of the states' laws,” he said.
But proponents of the section argued it was needed to free mortgage money in states with low interest ceilings. And they
maintained the bill provided that states could enact new laws to limit interest rates.
“Usury ceilings have been a real problem for borrowers as well as lenders in this country,” said Banking Committee Chairman
Proxmire. “They are well intended, but often they have the effect of shutting off or sharply curtailing mortgage credit.”
Proxmire added that “usury ceilings create an incentive for lenders to invest in other states which are not subject to the same
usury ceilings.”
Morgan's amendment was rejected 20-62. (Vote 163, p. 30-S)
Davis-Bacon Requirements
Also hotly debated was an amendment by the committee's ranking Republican, Garn. He proposed to exempt residential
rehabilitation projects by non-profit, federally funded neighborhood groups from Davis-Bacon journeyman-trainee ratios.
The 1931 act — one of organized labor's most hallowed laws — provided that federal contractors pay the locally prevailing wage
— usually the union wage — on federal construction jobs. It also set a tradesman-trainee ratio of approximately five to one.
2/8/10 2:21 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 9 of 12file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL96-…20Community%20Development%20Amendments%20of%201979.webarchive
“It was never contemplated that Davis-Bacon should in any way inhibit such neighborhood revitalization efforts,” Garn said.
Bill manager Harrison A. Williams Jr., D-N.J., chairman of both the Banking Subcommittee on Housing and the Labor and Human
Resources Committee, opposed the amendment on grounds its impact was “vastly overstated.”
Most self-help housing rehabilitation, he said, was done on small structures that already were exempt from Davis-Bacon.
And Labor Committee Republican Jacob K. Javits, N.Y., urged defeat of the proposal on grounds it would “break down the balance
of interest” between regular construction workers and self-help builders.
Garn's amendment, previously rejected in committee, failed 35–57. (Vote 160, p. 30-S)
Housing Authorizations
Williams described the housing bill as “truly lean in comparison with recent years.”
The legislation, he said, “fully reflects a desire of Congress and the public for thoughtful, prudent federal spending during an era
of enormous inflationary pressures.”
Like its House counterpart, the Housing Subcommittee had constructed a bill substantially lower than in 1979, and targeted the
aid for families least able to afford shelter.
But fiscal watchdog Proxmire — backed by Budget Committee Chairman Edmund S. Muskie, D-Maine — succeeded in trimming
an extra $145 million from the bill.
That cut, in contract authority for assisted housing, would pare the number of assisted units from 300,000 to 266,000 — the level
requested by the administration. The House bill, however, authorized funds for 300,000 units — down 66,000 units from the 1979
level.
“We have cut, we have cut, we have cut; we have cut to 300,000 units,” pleaded Williams. “…[B]ut let us not cut it one more
time.”
The amendment was approved 51-40. (Vote 161, p. 30-S)
Under the bill, only one program would receive a sizable funding increase: urban development action grants would jump $275
million to a total $675 million.
President Carter requested the hike to accommodate newly eligible “pockets of poverty “— distressed areas within non-distressed
cities.
The legislation was tightened, however, by an amendment sponsored by John Tower, R-Texas, and modified by Paul E. Tsongas,
D-Mass. It required non-distressed cities to contribute 20 percent of action grant project costs from local, state or other federal
funds.
Authorization cuts included:
The popular rehabilitation loan program, trimmed 47 percent to $130 million.
The planning assistance program, down about 20 percent to $50 million.
The bill also tightened eligibility requirements for the assisted housing program, dropping the family income ceiling from 80
percent to 70 percent of median income.
But it raised the ceiling on single-family mortgages from $60,000 to $70,000. The House retained the current limit.
And it also created a new, graduated mortgage program allowing lower downpayments and more repayment alternatives. That
flexibility was achieved by requiring that a government-backed mortgage never exceed 97 percent of the “projected” rather than
current value of a property.
Among other new legislative provisions was a section exempting certain interstate land transactions from federal registration and
disclosure requirements.
Applauded by Lawton Chiles, D-Fla., as eliminating “expensive, time-consuming and unnecessary requirements,” the measure
would allow developers of small subdivisions to sell to residents of another state if they live within 100 miles of the property.
The section, sought by the real estate industry, also would allow developers to use the “tools” of interstate commerce —
telephones or mail — if a potential purchaser lived in the same state as the developer's property.
The House interstate land sales provision would reduce some registration requirements for small developers while strengthening
HUD's enforcement powers.
Senate changes in the committee bill included:
2/8/10 2:21 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 10 of 12file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL96…20Community%20Development%20Amendments%20of%201979.webarchive
Two amendments by Pete V. Domenici, R-N.M.: to establish an Office of Elderly Housing; and to waive minimum capital requirements
in connection with the Section 202 elderly “independent living” program.
A proposal to require communities to study the ratio of condominium conversion to rental housing and require the secretary of housing
and urban development to report to Congress in six months on the multi-family housing market.
An amendment by Tsongas to change eligibility requirements and application forms for low-income rental programs to one uniform
standard.
Two proposals by Javits: to lift the purchase and sales price limits for multi-family housing financed by government-backed loans; and
to increase from 75 percent to 90 percent the amount a high-cost area mortgage may exceed the maximum FHA mortgage limits.
An amendment by Alan Cranston, D-Calif., to authorize the Federal Home Loan Bank Board to invest in a minority investment
corporation to provide ailing minority savings and loan associations with investment and modernization capital and technical
assistance.
An amendment by Jesse Helms, R-N.C., to ensure continued funding for a regional water and sewer system affected by the
government's decision to withdraw financial backing from the Soul City new town near Raleigh, N.C. Defeated by a 34-55 vote was a
proposal by William L. Armstrong, R-Colo., to limit rent subsidies to families with income of no more than 50 percent of the national
median or $12,000, whichever was less. (Vote 159, p. 29-S)
Crime, Flood, Riot Insurance
The omnibus housing bill also included the text of S 903 (S Rept 96-145) extending the Federal Insurance Administration's crime,
flood and riot insurance programs until Sept. 30, 1981, and authorizing $74 million for flood studies.
Bill managers said the extension was needed to allow the committee time to conduct oversight studies.
Insurance Subcommittee Chairman Donald Stewart, D-Ala., won voice approval of his amendment to transfer the position of flood
insurance administrator from the Department of Housing and Urban Development to the newly created Federal Insurance
Administration.
Rural Housing
The Rural Housing Amendments of 1979 approved by the Senate as part of the housing package differed from the administration
version chiefly in the length of authorization — one year instead of the requested two.
The bill, the Congressional Budget Office estimated, provided for outlays of about $140 million in 1980, with loan authority of $84
million and rural housing grant spending authority of about $66.5 million.
Morgan, Rural Housing Subcommittee chairman, said major program changes in the bill included:
Stricter targeting requirements to direct assistance to low-income families.
New authority to construct seasonal housing for farm workers.
Limits on the resale of Farmers Home Administration-backed mortgages by developers of low-income rural housing.
That provision was needed, Morgan said, to prevent developers from prepaying or refinancing projects aided by the FmHA to
help low-income families and then reselling the homes to high-income purchasers.
The original committee bill (S 1064 — S Rept 96-157) provided that FmHA loans could not be sold for 30 years. The Senate
amended that provision to 15 years and deleted a clause making the new resale rule retroactive.
Conference Highlights
The conference report on the bill was not filed until Dec. 13 (H Rept 96-706).
Contract Restrictions. The conference fight over the new contract restrictions revolved around whether to impose them on
current owners of rural housing projects.
Both sides agreed that some change was needed to correct a loophole that allowed investors to use taxpayer subsidies to build
homes for low-income people, but then quickly repay the loans, evict the tenants and convert the property to other uses.
“The investment of federal funds for housing must confer direct benefits on lower income families and not provide a windfall to
developers,” argued Rep. Thomas L. Ashley, D-Ohio, chairman of the House Housing Subcommittee, during debate on the
conference report.
Ashley and other House conferees took a hard line on the restrictions, arguing that current law intended that developers be
bound to the full terms of their contracts.
2/8/10 2:21 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 11 of 12file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL96…20Community%20Development%20Amendments%20of%201979.webarchive
Their Senate counterparts, however, viewed the provision as a retroactive clause that could initiate lawsuits against the
government by developers who'had converted the property to other use.
As a compromise, a committee aide said, Senate conferees accepted the restriction but wrote “some flexibility” into the bill by
allowing prepayment in certain cases.
However, Garn, ranking Republican on the Senate Banking Committee, refused to endorse the conference report, on grounds the
provision was “particularly shocking and unconscionable.”
Conferees also included a similar restriction binding owners of Section 8 rent subsidy housing projects to the full terms of their
contracts. That provision did not apply to current contract-holders, however.
Income Increase. Another provision that sparked controversy in conference was an increase in the maximum rent contribution
required from tenants of government assisted housing.
Previously, no family was required to pay more than 25 percent of its income towards rent. But the new bill gave the Department
of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) the authority to require a contribution between 20 and 30 percent of family income.
Senate Banking Chairman William Proxmire, D-Wis., called the increase a “painful but necessary step” towards fiscal discipline for
housing programs.
But Ashley promised the House that HUD would not implement the increase “unless the economic and financial viability of our
housing programs absolutely required it.”
A Senate aide, however, cautioned that Ashley's interpretation of the provision “is not unanimously endorsed on the Senate side.”
House conferees also lost a bid to exempt increases in Social Security benefits from personal income used to determine eligibility
for public housing.
House conferees, however, were able to stave off an attempt by the Senate to tighten the income level for applicants for Section
8 assisted housing — privately owned properties whose tenants receive government subsidies.
The Senate proposal would have limited the program to families with incomes no higher than 70 percent of the local average.
Instead, conferees stayed with the current 80 percent income level.
Housing Aid. Conferees accepted the Senate figure of $1.14 billion for low-income housing assistance, which would allow the
government to provide an additional 240,000-265,000 units during 1980.
Ashley acknowledged that while he was unhappy with the funding level, which was below the House-passed figure, it matched
the amount provided in the appropriations bill already cleared by Congress. (Appropriations bill, p. 207)
Displacement Priority. In order to help the limited federal dollars reach the families with the most urgent housing needs, the
conferees required that occupants of substandard housing or those displaced involuntarily from their homes go to the top of the
list for public housing and Section 8 programs.
Urban Development Action Grants. The conferees agreed to permit up to 20 percent of UDAG funds to go to healthy cities with
pockets of poverty. This provision was fought bitterly in 1978 by lawmakers from the ailing Northeast and Midwest.
But this time, members from the older cities approved the idea hi exchange for support from Southern and Western members for
the huge hike in funds.
“It was a classic case of cooperation between the Frostbelt and the Sunbelt,” a committee aide said.
While both groups of conferees accepted the principle of pockets of poverty, their versions of how to design the program differed.
The House advocated a stricter provision than the Senate, with a narrow definition of such an area and a requirement that a
pocket city not neglect basic services to the area.
The compromise, described by one aide as “a very decent resolution of a very difficult issue,” tightened the Senate version on
several counts but allowed that chamber a major concession on how pocket of poverty applications were evaluated.
House conferees had urged that pocket of poverty applicants compete with all other UDAG applicants for funds. But the Senate
thought the program should be separate.
The conference agreement allowed for a separate pool of funds for pocket of poverty applicants, but specified that such projects
be funded on their own merits.
Usury Limit. Bowing to the pressures of double-digit inflation and the skyrocketing cost of credit, conferees used the bill to
exempt from state and local usury laws any loan insured or issued by the government.
“This is necessary to prevent the shutdown of FHA in a number of states in which the FHA rate currently exceeds the state usury
ceiling,” Williams explained.
Interstate Land Sales. Conferees exempted numerous developments from the registration and disclosure requirements that
governed the interstate sale of land and tightened some regulations to aid consumers.
2/8/10 2:21 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 12 of 12file:///Users/Abhaya/Desktop/WEBPAGES,%20CONVERT%20LATER/PL96…20Community%20Development%20Amendments%20of%201979.webarchive
Ashley said the changes “balance the need to relieve intrastate and small land developers from federal registration and disclosure
requirements with the need to provide consumers with stronger protections against fraud.”
Graduated Payment Mortgage Program. Conferees scaled back the new graduated payment mortgage program, designed to
help young home-buyers by providing mortgages with payments that started out low and increased as their incomes increased.
Their bill limited the program to purchasers who had not owned a home in three years. And it placed a cap on the number of
GPMs that could be insured each year — 10 percent of all FHA mortgages or 50,000, whichever was greater.
Rural Housing Limits. In an attempt to gain new control over the activities of the Farmers Home Administration (FmHA), the
conferees for the first time placed a limit on the total loans and guarantees the agency could issue.
“It's in line with a more budget-conscious Congress,” a commmittee aide said.
In the past, the FmHA made loans or guarantees from a revolving credit fund that required no authorization from Congress to tap.
Temporary Mortgage Help. A temporary mortgage payment assistance program included in the Senate bill was dropped from
the conference agreement after the administration withdrew its support.
The White House maintained HUD already had the authority, under its assignment program, to take over mortgage costs for
government-insured borrowers temporarily unable to meet their payments.
Document Citation
"Housing Authorization." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal79-1185174. Originally published in CQ Almanac 1979
(Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1980). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal79-1185174 (accessed February 4, 2010).
Document ID: cqal79-1185174
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal79-1185174
© 1980, 2010, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
