7/2/09 4:53 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal82-1164594&type=hitlist&num=5
Stock Market and Financial
Services
2004 Stock Option Accountability
2001 SEC Law a Win for Wall Street
1999 Major Overhaul Enacted Of Rules
Governing the Financial Services
Industry
1998 Loophole Fix Moves Class-Action
Securities Suits From State to
Federal Courts
1998 Financial Services Overhaul Dies
in Senate, A Victim of Friendly
Fire
1997 Financial Services Overhaul Stalls
1996 Securities Regulation Provisions
1996 Financial Services Provisions
1996 Congress Streamlines Securities
Rules
1994 Other Securities-Related Bills
Considered in 1994
1994 Financial Services Trade Bill
Falters at Session's End
1993 Financial Services Bill Seeks To
Open Markets
1993 Bill Tightens Regulation of
Government Bond Market
1992 Government Securities Bill Is
Quashed
1991 Government Securities Bill
Considered
1990 Market Control Authority of the
Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) Increased
1990 Congress Passes Bills
Strengthening Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC)
1989 Securities Arbitration
1989 Market Reform Stalled
1988 Stock Market Regulation
1988 Insider-Trading Bill
1986 Securities Dealer Regulations
1985 Government Securities Firms
1982 Commodity Futures Trading Bill
Cleared
1980 Securities Investor Privacy
1977 Investor Protection
1975 Overhaul Of Securities Industry
Approved
1974 Rules Committee Blocks
Securities Bill
1974 Municipal Bonds Regulation
1973 Stock Exchange Membership
1973 Securities Transactions
1973 Securities Thefts
1973 Federal Financing Bank
1972 Securities Transactions
1972 Securities Industry
1971 Securities Thefts: Mafia Moves on
Wall Street
1971 Securities Industry
Commodity Futures Trading Bill Cleared
An article from CQ Almanac 1982
Document Outline
User Fees Added
Contract Sanctity Issue
Provisions
Background
House Committee Action
House Floor Action
Senate Action
Major Differences
Features
President Reagan Jan. 10, 1983, signed into law a bill (HR 5447 — PL 97 -
444 ) requiring that the president guarantee the delivery of American farm
exports for up to nine months even if he should decide to impose a trade
embargo.
Despite an earlier threat of a veto, conferees on the bill reauthorizing the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) through Sept. 30, 1986, had
agreed Dec. 9, 1982, to retain the so-called “contract sanctity” rider added by
the Senate.
The Senate approved the conference agreement (H Rept 97 –964) by
voice vote Dec. 15; the House followed suit Dec. 16, clearing the measure for
the president.
The contract sanctity amendment barred the president from restricting the
export of any agricultural commodity under contract at the time an embargo
was imposed, if delivery was scheduled within 270 days.
Sponsored by Sen. David R. Durenberger, R-Minn., the provision had been
adopted by voice vote before the Senate passed its version of the bill Oct. 1.
The bill passed Sept. 23 by the House had no similar language.
Supporters said the guarantee was needed because America's reputation as
a reliable supplier of food had been damaged severely by the 1980 embargo
on grain sales to the Soviet Union and by earlier trade restraints. (1980
Almanac p. 93)
User Fees Added
Other provisions of HR 5447 were intended to strengthen the hand of state
law enforcement officials and individuals against fraudulent commodity
operators. The bill also ratified an important jurisdictional agreement between
the CFTC and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
In addition, under a compromise worked out between the commodities
industry and the Office of Management and Budget, the final legislation
affirmed CFTC authority to charge the industry fees for such services as
approval of contracts. Both the House and Senate had rejected attempts to
include administration-backed fees on individual commodities transactions, but
conferees added the “service fee” language to avert another veto threat to the
bill.
The fees would return about $3 million a year to the Treasury, according to
Richard G. Lugar, R-Ind., chairman of the Senate Agriculture subcommittee
with jurisdiction over the CFTC.
 
7/2/09 4:53 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal82-1164594&type=hitlist&num=5
1971 Securities Industry
1970 Securities Exemption
1970 Protection for Stockholders
1970 Mutual Funds: New Controls
After Four-Year Delay
1970 Congress Clears Securities
Investor Protection Bill
1969 Securities Hearings
1969 Mutual Funds
1968 Securities Disclosure
1968 Over-The-Counter Securities
1968 Institutional Investors Study
1967 Securities Disclosure
1967 Hearings Held on S.E.C. Bill to
Regulate Mutual Funds
1965 Securities Fees
1964 Controls Over Stock Issues and
Dealers Strengthened
1963 SEC Study Submitted; Senate
Approves Bill
1962 S.E.C. Activities
1955 Stock Market Study
1955 Government Securities
1954 Changes In SEC Law
The administration originally had wanted Congress to authorize transaction
fees to raise enough revenue to cover most of the CFTC's annual $23 million
budget. But the industry objected that the fees would drain financial support
from its new, self-regulatory group, the National Futures Association (NFA),
and neither the House nor the Senate included the transaction fees in their
CFTC bills.
The bill set a deadline by which the NFA must actively share regulatory
responsibilities with the CFTC.
Contract Sanctity Issue
The bill's guarantee on delivery of agricultural exports, with an exception only
for national emergency or war, drew objections from the State Department
because it restricted the president's freedom to act in the future. But because
the trade guarantee had wide support within the financially troubled farm
community, administration officials had avoided making public objections to it.
Sen. Robert Dole, R-Kan., told conferees Dec. 9 that he and other supporters
of the provision had offered to soften the language in conference if the State
Department would agree to negotiate a long-term grain sale agreement with
the Soviet Union. But “to try to reason with the State Department is, as in any
administration, impossible,” Dole said.
Although department officials did not respond to his offer, Dole added, “now, at the last minute, they're calling
frantically and saying, ‘you've got to change this.’”
Administration officials sought, without success, to convince farm lobbyists and their congressional allies that they
did not need the statutory guarantee because Reagan repeatedly had pledged to avoid trade embargoes, except in
extreme circumstances.
But supporters insisted a statutory guarantee was needed to assure foreign purchasers that U.S. export
commitments would be honored despite an embargo or other foreign policy action.
During House debate on the conference report, Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Clement J. Zablocki, D-Wis.,
noted that the amendment normally would have been within the jurisdiction of his committee, and that he did not
consider it a precedent for future Agriculture Committee action on export matters.
Provisions
As cleared by Congress, HR 5447:
Authorized funding as needed for activities of the CFTC through Sept. 30, 1986.
CFTC-SEC Accord. Affirmed exclusive CFTC jurisdiction over commodity futures contracts and options on futures,
including futures and options on so-called exempted securities, such as instruments of the Government National
Mortgage Association and Treasury bills, but not on municipal securities.
Barred CFTC jurisdiction over options on securities, including groups or indexes of securities, in effect affirming the
jurisdiction of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Prohibited futures or options on futures on individual corporate bonds and securities or on municipal securities.
Stated that nothing in the Commodity Exchange Act, the basic CFTC legislation, applied to options on foreign currency
traded on a national securities exchange. The effect of the provision was to permit trading on such options on both
commodity and stock exchanges.
Affirmed CFTC jurisdiction over futures and options on futures on a group or index of securities, and spelled out
standards for approval of contracts on such indexes. Barred CFTC approval of an application for this type of trading if
the SEC found within 45 days, or 90 days in some circumstances, that the contract did not meet specified criteria.
Affirmed CFTC jurisdiction over commodity pools except where pool transactions were subject to securities law, as in
securities issued by pools.
Broadened existing disclosure authority to permit the CFTC to give information on potentially disruptive transactions or
market operations to a registered futures association or self-regulatory securities association.
Other Provisions
Expanded categories of individuals subject to various commodity law provisions; made officials of commodity firms
7/2/09 4:53 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal82-1164594&type=hitlist&num=5
responsible for acts of their employees and agents under specified conditions.
Affirmed that U.S. residents who sold foreign futures were subject to federal registration requirements and other
regulations. (Federal regulations required individuals involved in futures and related transactions to register with the
CFTC.)
Explicitly barred the CFTC from regulating foreign markets.
Expanded CFTC authority to set speculative limits, and affirmed the authority of contract markets and other licensed
exchanges to set such limits for futures or option transactions; made violation of a market limit a violation of federal law,
if the CFTC had approved the market limit.
Authorized the CFTC to implement a three-year pilot program on trading in agricultural options, and then to generally
permit such trading, but only 30 days after reporting to the Agriculture committees of Congress on its ability adequately
to regulate such trading.
Required large traders to keep certain financial records even if exempted from routine reporting rules.
Eliminated a $15,000 ceiling for claims eligible for arbitration by markets or a registered futures association; made
merchants who were not members of a market eligible for its arbitration process. Repealed a ban on mandatory
settlement payments not agreed to by both parties.
Revised rules for the CFTC's reparations program, and limited eligibility for the program to registrants.
Affirmed CFTC authority to set temporary emergency margin levels and to fix position limits retroactively. (A margin was
the amount of money or collateral that must be deposited by a client or broker to insure against loss on futures
contracts; a position limit was the maximum interest an individual could hold on a commodity future or on all futures in
one commodity.)
Authorized the CFTC to restrict or cancel registration for specified causes; upgraded to felonies certain illegal actions,
such as manipulating the price of a commodity or a futures market or transmitting false market information.
Authorized states to enforce relevant state or federal laws against illegal commodity transactions occurring outside
regulated exchanges and outside the regulatory structure of the CFTC.
Authorized states to enforce anti-fraud sections of the Commodity Exchange Act in state courts, against persons
registered as required by the federal law. Exempted floor brokers and registered futures associations from such state
enforcement and authorized the CFTC to intervene in these proceedings.
Required the commodity industry's self-regulatory group, the National Futures Association (NFA), to put into operation a
specific regulatory program, as directed by the CFTC, by Sept. 30, 1985. Authorized the CFTC to require the NFA or
similar self-regulatory groups to take over certain CFTC responsibilities, such as registration of commodity brokers and
others involved in futures transactions.
Authorized the CFTC to regulate leverage transactions as soon as practicable. (A leverage contract was an agreement
calling for delivery of a commodity with payments made in installments.)
Authorized private lawsuits, with certain limitations, against commodity dealers, trading advisers or contract markets by
individuals who had been harmed by violation of the Commodity Exchange Act occurring on or off regulated markets.
Required the Federal Reserve Board, with the assistance of the CFTC, the SEC and the Treasury, to conduct a study
and report to Congress by Sept. 30, 1984, on the effect of futures and options trading on the economy, including the
effect on capital investment in industry and business; also required that the study examine the impact of stock index
futures on the securities on which they were based and on capital formation, with recommendations for legislation if
needed.
Directed the CFTC to conduct a two-year study on commodities trading by individuals, such as company officials, who
had information not generally available to the public, and to report on whether the commission had enough authority to
prevent abuses in such “insider trading.”
Restated existing authority for the CFTC to charge fees for such services as rule enforcement reviews of commodity
exchanges; barred imposition of “user” fees or fees on individual commodities or options transactions.
Authorized the CFTC to deny the use of futures markets or impose other sanctions against persons violating the
statutory requirement that large commodity export sales be reported to the Agriculture Department.
Trade Guarantee
Barred the president from prohibiting or restricting the export of any agricultural commodity that was under contract at
the time the president imposed an embargo or other restriction on trade, if the contract provided for delivery of the
commodity within 270 days of the imposition of such a restriction. However, the bill permitted restrictions on contracted
agricultural sales abroad in time of war or national emergency.
7/2/09 4:53 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal82-1164594&type=hitlist&num=5
Background
Congressional committees struggled throughout 1982 to revise the regulation of an industry whose rapid growth in
new directions made some members uneasy.
At issue was how to treat the fast-growing trade in new hybrid financial instruments. The new instruments based so-
called “forward” or future contracts on conventional stocks or bonds that were used by corporations and units of
government to raise capital.
Future contracts typically set a price for a given commodity on a specified date in the future. An option permitted an
owner to buy or sell at a certain price in the future but imposed no obligation to do so. (Box, p. 366)
Those types of contracts had been used for decades by buyers and sellers of agricultural commodities as a form of
insurance against price changes, and by speculators.
Inflation made them attractive to dealers in nonfarm goods during the past decade, and the market responded with
ingenious new variations. Futures or options were available, for example, on foreign currency, Treasury bonds,
housing bonds and stock indexes.
Congress fueled the trend in 1974 when it wrote an unusually inclusive definition of “commodity” into the statute (PL
93-463) creating the CFTC. But fierce competition over new products between securities and futures industries
continued to inspire occasional congressional plans for dismembering the CFTC. (1974 Almanac p. 215)
In December 1981, the CFTC and SEC voluntarily divided up much of the disputed turf, deciding which types of
transactions would be regulated by each agency. However, on March 23, the U.S. Appeals Court in Chicago ruled
against one section of the accord, finding that the SEC did not have authority to regulate non-stock options on such
instruments as mortgages bought and resold through the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA).
The decision, in effect, took from securities brokers a new business that had been granted them by the agreement.
Congressional ratification of the agreement would overrule the court and give that business back to them.
The accord also:
Affirmed exclusive CFTC jurisdiction over commodity futures contracts and options on futures, including futures and
options on so-called exempted securities such as GNMAs and Treasury bills.
Barred CFTC jurisdiction over options on securities, including groups or indexes of securities, in effect affirming SEC
jurisdiction.
Prohibited futures or options on individual corporate bonds and securities or on municipal securities.
Stated that nothing in the commodities statute applied to options on foreign currency traded on a national securities
exchange. The effect was to permit trading on such options on both commodity and stock exchanges.
Affirmed CFTC jurisdiction over futures on a group or index of securities, and spelled out standards for approval of
contracts on such indexes. Provided for public comment and SEC review of index contracts and in the event of an SEC
objection, a CFTC hearing and judicial appeal by the SEC.
Affirmed CFTC jurisdiction over commodity pools, except where pool transactions were subject to securities law, as in
securities issued by pools.
House Committee Action
Although the CFTC was under the Agriculture Committee jurisdiction, the House Energy and Commerce Committee,
which had jurisdiction over the SEC, requested referral of the legislation.
Chairman John D. Dingell, D-Mich., disapproved strongly of the accord. He complained in an April 23 hearing held by
the Commerce Subcommittee on Telecommunications, Consumer Protection and Finance that the CFTC was
positioned to claim jurisdiction over securities and “eliminate competition from securities exchanges, much like PAC-
men moving across a video screen.”
“This trend must be stopped,” he added.
The subcommittee hearing signaled deep skepticism in and out of Congress about the wisdom of the CFTC-SEC
agreement.
Although witnesses generally advised prompt congressional approval of the accord to eliminate uncertainties
affecting markets, many also said it was time for Congress to rework regulation of financial markets. Some
suggested merging the commodities and securities agencies.
7/2/09 4:53 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal82-1164594&type=hitlist&num=5
Subcommittee Chairman Timothy E. Wirth, D-Colo., said, “I believe our task should be more than just to allocate
various financial instruments to a particular agency.”
Some witnesses from the securities industry urged either a much larger regulatory role for the SEC than the accord
provided or strict securities-type regulation in futures markets, including protections for consumers. They suggested
that the CFTC was neither competent nor interested in protecting customers.
CFTC Chairman Philip Johnson stressed that differing styles of regulation by the CFTC and SEC reflected deep
functional differences between futures and securities trading. He suggested that the two agencies continue working
informally to solve regulatory problems.
In response to complaints that futures markets offered customers too little protection, Johnson indicated that his
industry's reputation for fast, high-risk, high-stakes trading protected consumers by discouraging all but the most
sophisticated and affluent from participating.
Like Johnson, SEC Chairman John S. R. Shad urged approval of the accord. But Shad also remarked that “as a
theoretical matter, it is the commission's view that the agency which has authority over the underlying instrument or
‘commodity’ should have authority over all derivative interests in such instrument.”
Another concern raised was whether trading in the financial hybrids diverted capital from more productive, long-term
investments. Those who defended such new instruments as options on stock indexes said that by acting as
insurance against inflation, the instruments could actually encourage capital formation.
The Agriculture Committee made relatively minor changes in its subcommittee bill. As reported May 17 (H Rept 
97 –565) the bill ratified the CFTC-SEC agreement.
Commerce Committee
Before approving the funding reauthorization June 16, the Energy and Commerce Committee agreed to changes
expressing Chairman Dingell's misgivings.
The first change gave the SEC power to veto CFTC approval of contracts on futures on an index or group of
securities. This change disturbed one portion of the CFTC-SEC agreement ratified by the bill as reported by the
House Agriculture Committee. The agreement only permitted the SEC to review applications for such contracts,
object, and appeal through the courts if the CFTC disregarded its objections.
The second change broadened the scope of a study of the futures industry mandated by the Agriculture panel and
shifted lead responsibility for the study from the CFTC to the Federal Reserve Board.
House Floor Action
On Sept. 23 the House approved a four-year reauthorization by a 319–59 vote, after rejecting an amendment that
would have levied fees on individual futures transactions. (Vote 343, p. 102-H)
The bill strengthened the federal and state regulators in several respects and authorized the CFTC to delegate to
the NFA key regulatory functions, such as registration of persons active in the futures markets.
The House Sept. 23 also passed by voice vote a related bill (HR 6156) making changes in federal securities
statutes to make them conform to the CFTC-SEC agreement. HR 6156 had been reported June 24 by the House
Energy and Commerce Committee and July 30 by the Agriculture Committee (H Rept 97 –626 Pts. 1 & II).
During consideration of HR 5447, Barber B. Conable Jr., R-N.Y., proposed imposing fees of 6 cents per transaction
for each contract traded by a member of an exchange or a self-regulatory organization such as the NFA; 12 cents
for non-members; and $3 for options and leverage transactions.
But the House disregarded Conable's arguments that the fees would be a negligible cost and that other regulated
financial industries had long borne similar fees. The amendment was rejected 170–216. (Vote 342, p. 102-H)
Conable maintained that taxpayers should not pay for futures regulation since the benefits went mainly to a
relatively small group of futures traders.
But Thomas A. Daschle, D-S.D., and Dan Rostenkowski, D-Ill., insisted that the nation as a whole benefited from the
price-setting and risk-sharing functions of the futures market.
Ways and Means Committee Chairman Rostenkowski also objected that the fees amounted to a tax that had not
been approved by his tax-writing committee and that it was “unprecedented to provide revenue powers” to a
regulatory agency. Conable's amendment allowed the CFTC to suspend or reduce fees. In other action, the House:
Adopted by a 7–5 standing vote an Energy and Commerce Committee amendment that enhanced SEC jurisdiction over
futures and options on futures on a group or index of securities.
The agreement and the Agriculture Committee bill affirmed CFTC authority over those transactions, provided for
7/2/09 4:53 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal82-1164594&type=hitlist&num=5
The agreement and the Agriculture Committee bill affirmed CFTC authority over those transactions, provided for
SEC review of applications to the CFTC for index contracts and permitted SEC lawsuits if the securities agency
disapproved a CFTC decision.
The committee amendment approved by the House barred CFTC approval of an index contract if the SEC
determined, within a few months, that the contract did not meet certain criteria.
Adopted by voice vote a second Energy and Commerce amendment broadening a study on futures and related
instruments, and making the Federal Reserve the lead agency for the study.
Adopted by voice votes clarifying amendments relating to private lawsuits and to the assumption of regulatory functions
by the NFA.
Adopted by voice vote an amendment by Neal Smith, D-Iowa, that required large export sales of commodities such as
wheat to be reported to the CFTC within 48 hours, and to be made public by the next working day. An existing
Agriculture Department reporting system was too slow, Smith said.
Adopted by an 18-0 standing vote a Smith amendment that prohibited trading on a commodity by individuals with
“insider” information on that commodity that was not generally available to the public.
Senate Action
The Senate Agricuture Committee reported its bill May 6 (S 2109 — S Rept 97 –384). A companion measure
conforming security laws to the CFTC-SEC agreement was reported May 12 by the Banking Housing and Urban
Affairs Committee (S 2260 — S Rept 97 –390).
In floor debate, the Senate rejected a transaction fee amendment by a 27–66 vote before passing its CFTC bill Oct.
1 and attaching the language to the House bill. (Vote 381, p. 64-S)
In arguing for his proposal to guarantee export contracts, Durenberger said that a series of embargoes beginning in
1973 had damaged America's reputation abroad as a “reliable supplier” of food.
Richard G. Lugar, R-Ind., speaking in support of the amendment, said that before President Carter's 1980 embargo
on grain sales to the Soviet Union, America's share of growth in the world commodities market was 76 percent.
(That is, for every 100-bushel increase in world wheat sales, 76 bushels were American wheat.) After the embargo,
that share dropped to 54 percent, Lugar said.
The Senate also considered the following amendments:
By William V. Roth Jr., R-Del., to give states the authority to prosecute persons registered under the Commodity
Exchange Act under state commodities or securities anti-fraud statutes. Adopted by voice vote.
By Charles H. Percy, R-Ill., to set time limits on CFTC reivew of futures association rules. Adopted by voice vote.
By Percy to facilitate the assumption of certain CFTC registration functions by the National Futures Association. Adopted
by voice vote.
In separate action, the Senate by a 91-0 vote passed the House companion bill on security laws (HR 6156),
clearing the bill for the president. The bill was signed into law (PL 97-303) Oct. 13. (Vote 382, p. 64-S)
Major Differences
Major differences in the two CFTC authorizations bills included:
The House had no provision to match the Senate's sweeping ban on agricultural trade embargoes.
The Senate bill continued CFTC funding for two years, anticipating reconsideration of transaction fees then. The House
approved a four-year reauthorization.
A House-passed change in one section of the CFTC-SEC accord that gave the SEC more authority to block CFTC
decisions on trading in stock index futures and options.
A Senate-passed authorization for state officials to bring anti-fraud actions against both on-exchange and off-exchange
transactions. That provided an exception to what had been exclusive CFTC jurisdiction over transactions in commodities
exchanges.
House-passed authority for private lawsuits for violations of commodity law filed by individuals, contract markets,
clearing organizations or registered futures associations.
Senate-passed authority for the CFTC to require a registered futures association, such as the NFA, to perform
registration functions, including denial or revocation of registration.
7/2/09 4:53 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal82-1164594&type=hitlist&num=5
registration functions, including denial or revocation of registration.
The House bill required a registered futures association to implement a number of regulatory programs within two
years, such as audits and enforcement among members.
A House-passed prohibition on “insider” trading — transactions by individuals with information that was not generally
available to the public on a commodity.
A House-passed requirement that export commodity sales be made public by the CFTC shortly after they were
contracted.
Features
Futures Industry Definitions
Following are definitions of terms used in the futures trading industry:
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC): A five-member federal board authorized by Congress in 1974
and charged with ensuring proper execution of customer orders and preventing unlawful manipulation, price
distortion, fraud, cheating, fictitious trades and misuse of customer funds. Among its duties are licensing exchanges,
registering brokers and certain other professionals, auditing records and bank accounts, monitoring trading, and
prosecuting violators.
Futures Contract: A firm commitment to deliver or to receive a specified quantity and grade of a commodity during
a designated month, with the price being determined by public auction among exchange members.
Leverage Contract: A standardized agreement calling for delivery of a commodity with payments against the total
cost spread out over a period of time.
Option: A unilateral contract which gives the buyer the right to buy or sell a specified quantity of a commodity at a
specific price within a specified period of time, regardless of the market price of that commodity.
Sources: Senate Agriculture Committee and Using the Futures Market in Financial Planning by Raymond M. Leuthold
and P. Jon van Blokland, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, College of Agriculture, Cooperative Extension
Service.
Document Citation
"Commodity Futures Trading Bill  Cleared." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal82-1164594. Originally
published in CQ Almanac 1982 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1983). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal82-
1164594 (accessed July 2, 2009).
Document ID: cqal82-1164594
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal82-1164594
© 1983, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
