7/2/09 4:51 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal82-1163544&type=hitlist&num=4
Savings and Loan Industry
1996 GOP Wins Passage of Banking Bill
1995 Plan to Bolster Thrift Fund Dies
1993 Thrift Cleanup Financing
Provisions
1993 Hill Votes More Funds for Thrift
Bailout
1992 S&L Bailout Funding Dries Up
1991 Thrift Bailout Fund Replenished
Twice
1990 Bill To Add Thrift Bailout Funds
Dies
1989 Sweeping Thrift Bailout Bill
Cleared
1989 Lincoln Savings Scandal Examined
in Hearings
1988 Thrift Crisis Debated, but Little
Action Taken
1987 Fears About S&L Insurance Fund
Spur Rescue
1982 Savings and Loan Aid, Banking
Law Changes
1981 Aid for Savings & Loans
1980 Savings and Loan Takeovers
1973 Interest On Savings Deposits
1967 S & L Holding Companies
1967 Federal Savings Banks
1966 Interest Rates on Deposits at
Banks Limited
1954 Savings, Loan Branches
Banking
Congressional Ethics
Savings and Loan Aid, Banking Law Changes
An article from CQ Almanac 1982
Document Outline
Final Provisions
House Committee Action
House Floor Action
Senate Committee Action
Senate Floor Action
Final Action
Features
Congress gave final approval late Oct. 1 to major legislation to help bolster
the nation's ailing savings and loan industry and to give new powers to both
banks and thrift institutions.
The measure (HR 6267 — PL 97 - 320 ) was largely intended to stem
the tide of mergers of financially troubled institutions. It did not go as far as
the overhaul of banking and financial institutions legislation that had been
pushed since 1981 by Senate Banking Committee Chairman Jake Garn, R-
Utah. (Background, 1981 Almanac p. 121)
The legislation permitted federal regulators to aid ailing institutions through a
series of paper transactions that were not expected to cost the federal
government any money if the institutions pulled through.
It also authorized federal regulators to set up a new type of insured account
for commercial banks and savings and loan associations (S&Ls) that would be
competitive with popular money market funds. Many ailing institutions had
complained that the money market funds, which could offer higher interest
rates, had drained regular savings deposits.
The bill required the elimination of all differentials in interest rates between
banks and S&Ls by 1984, and gave savings institutions new investment and
lending authority.
Commercial banks, however, would not be allowed to sell property and
casualty insurance — an authority banks had sought.
As part of a compromise between lenders and real estate brokers, the bill overrode state laws that prohibited
enforcement of due-on-sale clauses in mortgage contracts, limiting the assumption of home mortgages. (Details,
box, next page)
The banking measure followed over a year and a half of complex negotiations between Congress and divergent
elements of the financial community. The final compromise largely followed the lines of the Senate version of the bill
(S 2879).
As originally passed by the House, HR 6267 was a less comprehensive measure that would have set up a special
$8.5 billion Treasury fund to guarantee through paper transactions the net worth of certain financial institutions. The
fund would have aided S&Ls, mutual savings banks and credit unions with a net worth — the amount by which
assets exceed liabilities — below 2 percent, and commercial banks with net worth below 4 to 5 percent.
The aid program in the final bill, however, would provide partial assistance on a sliding scale to institutions whose
net worth fell below 3 percent.
It allowed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC) and the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp. (FSLIC)
to bolster the net worth of these ailing institutions through the exchange of capital notes. Institutions would not be
required to pay off the notes until their condition had improved, but they had to be able to show some ability to
recover to qualify for the aid initially.
The conference committee agreed to raise the level of such assistance above the Senate-passed bill, a move the
 
7/2/09 4:51 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal82-1163544&type=hitlist&num=4
The conference committee agreed to raise the level of such assistance above the Senate-passed bill, a move the
U.S League of Savings Associations said would help 400 more savings associations than would have been helped
under the Senate version.
Final Provisions
As signed into law Oct. 15, HR 6267 (PL 97 - 320 ):
Established a program allowing federally insured financial institutions to exchange capital notes with the FDIC and
FSLIC to bolster the financial condition of troubled institutions.
Allowed institutions with net worth of 3 to 2 percent, 2 to 1 percent, and 1 percent and below to receive assistance equal
to losses of 50 percent, 60 percent and 70 percent, respectively.
Required that institutions qualifying for such aid have a net worth of at least .5 percent, have incurred losses during the
two previous quarters and have 20 percent of their loans in mortgages.
Terminated the assistance provisions three years after enactment.
Gave the Depository Institutions Deregulation Committee (DIDC), an inter-agency regulatory body, two months to create
an insured account for thrift institutions and banks that would be “directly equivalent to and competitive with” money
market funds. The minimum-account requirement was not to exceed $5,000.
Required that all interest rate differentials between banks and thrift institutions be phased out no later than Jan. 1, 1984.
Under existing law, thrifts could pay a quarter percentage point more interest on certain deposits. (Background, 1980
Almanac p. 275)
Allowed S&Ls to offer checking accounts, but only to those businesses or entities that did loan business with the
institution.
Allowed S&Ls to stabilize their income by putting as much as 10 percent of their assets into commercial loans by 1984.
Traditionally, savings institutions had most of their assets invested in low-yield, long-term mortgages — one reason for
their current financial predicament.
Prohibited commercial banks from selling casualty and property insurance. Banks could still sell credit-related
insurance.
Expanded the powers of both the FDIC and the FSLIC to assist troubled banks and thrift institutions through mergers.
Such mergers could not be mandated unless the institution had net worth of less than .5 percent and it was determined
the institution's net worth would be exhausted in six months.
Gave priority for such mergers to in-state acquisitions, followed by acquisitions in contiguous states and other interstate
acquisitions.
Gave the National Credit Union Administration authority to approve mergers between insured credit unions when one
faced financial trouble.
Expanded the authority of bank service corporations, affiliates of two or more banks that provided various clerical
services for their parent bank. Under the bill,  service corporations would be allowed to perform all the services of a
state-chartered bank as well as some of those permitted a bank holding company.
Overrode state laws barring enforcement of due-on-sale clauses in home mortgage contracts, except for mortgages
originated or assumed during a “window period” specified in the bill.
Prohibited the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. from implementing a ban on mortgage assumptions until  July 1,
1983.
Excluded real estate brokers from provisions of the Truth-in-Lending Act so that they could continue helping with loan
arrangements for home sales.
Amended the Federal Credit Union Act to simplify the organization of credit unions and broaden their mortgage lending
powers.
House Committee Action
Legislation to prop up troubled thrift institutions through a paper transaction with the federal government won House
Banking Committee approval on a 25–15 vote May 11.
The Net Worth Guarantee Act (HR 6267 — H Rept 97 –550), approved in a straight party-line vote, would allow
the Treasury to guarantee the net worth of savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, commercial banks
7/2/09 4:51 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal82-1163544&type=hitlist&num=4
the Treasury to guarantee the net worth of savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, commercial banks
and credit unions if their net worth dropped below 2 percent of assets.
Although the legislation would establish an $8.5 billion fund to back the net worth of these institutions, no money
would change hands unless the bank or S&L failed.
“This is a no-cost situation. It's not a bailout,” said Committee Chairman Fernand J. St Germain, D-R.I., the bill's
sponsor. The Treasury guarantees would restore investors' confidence, he said, adding that wobbly institutions “can
indeed survive if they are given this type of assistance.”
Because the bill's sponsors viewed HR 6267 as a way to strengthen the housing market, the legislation involved two
important conditions: At least 20 percent of a qualifying institution's loan portfolio must be in residential real estate;
and a thrift receiving aid must earmark at least 60 percent of its net new deposits for home mortgages.
HR 6267 replaced an earlier proposal by St Germain to channel $7.5 billion in loans to ailing lending institutions.
Because of opposition to the large cash outlay involved in the first plan, St Germain offered HR 6267, which used
Treasury guarantees instead of direct cash payments.
But St Germain's new version still did not satisfy Reagan administration critics, and Banking Committee Republicans
May 11 tried to offer an administration-backed alternative. The substitute, offered by Chalmers P. Wylie, R-Ohio, was
tabled without debate in a 21–20 vote.
Wylie's plan would have applied to institutions with a net worth below 3 percent, compared to HR 6267's 2 percent
limit, and it would have guaranteed the institution's net worth for only a portion of its losses. In contrast, HR 6267
would completely make up an institution's losses by bringing its net worth up to 2 percent of assets.
Legislation's Goals
The impetus behind St Germain's legislation was the shaky condition of the thrift industry.
With savers withdrawing money from S&Ls and mutual savings banks and investing instead in higher-yielding
Treasury bills and money-market funds, thrifts had suffered huge losses in recent years. In 1981, S&Ls lost $25
billion in savings, the U.S. League of Savings Associations reported, and a record number of S&Ls were merged.
Complicating the problem of withdrawals, thrifts had become saddled with portfolios of low-yield, fixed-rate
mortgages. To attract new depositors, the institutions had to pay more for savings than they earned on their
mortgage portfolios. Under these conditions, mortgage money had dried up.
The purpose of HR 6267, supporters said, was to ensure the availability of home mortgage loans, stave off further
mergers and revive public confidence in thrifts.
To accomplish this, the legislation would work as follows:
A Net Worth Guarantee Account would be established in the Treasury to back guarantees issued to weakened
depository institutions. The fund would be subject to an $8.5 billion limit, and the government would honor any
guarantee if an institution were liquidated.
To qualify for a guarantee an institution must have a net worth below 2 percent of assets; have suffered earnings losses
for at least two consecutive quarters, and the losses must not be the result of poor management; have at least 20
percent of its loan portfolio in residential real estate or securities backed by residential real estate; and show prospects
of long-term viability. Generally, net worth is an institution's assets, or loans due, minus liabilities, or deposits owed.
Conditions for receiving assistance included the requirement that an institution retire the net worth guarantees; provide
regular reports to the administering agencies on its financial condition and lending practices; and earmark, for as long as
the guarantee was outstanding, at least 60 percent of its net new deposits for residential mortgages at or below Federal
Housing Administration (FHA) loan ceilings. To partially comply with the last requirement, the thrift could purchase
mortgage-backed securities.
Each institution would receive guarantees to bring its net worth up to 2 percent of assets and maintain that level for not
more than two years. Thereafter, an agency could extend the guarantees only if losses resulted from general economic
conditions rather than management decisions.
If an institution were liquidated, the Treasury secretary would pay the institution's receiver the amount of the outstanding
guarantees. The government would have a claim on the institution's liquidated assets after all deposits, certificates of
deposit and debts were paid.
In considering HR 6267, committee members attempted to restrain bank regulatory agencies from requiring that
institutions receiving guarantees sign a merger agreement or make management changes. The requirement could
apply, however, to institutions with a net worth level below one-half of 1 percent.
Officials of the U.S. League of Savings Associations, a major lobbying group supporting HR 6267, praised the limit
on the right of regulatory agencies to force mergers when federal guarantees were authorized.
“This has been a demeaning and obnoxious requirement” in an existing government assistance program, said
League President William B. O'Connell, “and we are glad to see it eliminated.”
7/2/09 4:51 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal82-1163544&type=hitlist&num=4
House Floor Action
The House passed HR 6267 by a 272-91 vote May 20, nine days after passing legislation to resuscitate the ailing
housing industry. (Vote 86, p. 26-H)
The two bills, sponsors said, were designed to ward off the collapse of home builders and mortgage lenders who
had been hit hard by the recession and high interest rates.
The housing measure (HR 6294), which provided $1 billion in emergency mortgage subsidies for low- and middle-
income families buying new homes, passed the House May 11. President Reagan June 24 vetoed a compromise
version of the plan, which had been included in supplemental appropriations legislation. (House housing bill, p. 71;
supplemental veto, p. 205)
The major difference between the two rescue plans was that the mortgage assistance bill involved a direct cash
infusion to revive the housing market, while the thrifts bill relied on a paper transaction to shore up troubled financial
institutions. Under HR 6267's guarantees, money would change hands only if a bank or S&L failed.
“What we do here is more than help a segment of the financial industry,” said Henry B. Gonzalez, D-Texas. “We set
the basis for a healthy recovery of housing.”
House passage of HR 6267 followed an attempt by Chalmers P. Wylie, R-Ohio, to offer an alternative backed by the
Reagan administration. The substitute was defeated 155–209. (Vote 85, p. 26-H)
Wylie's proposal, based on a plan suggested by Federal Home Loan Bank Board Chairman Richard T. Pratt, would
have offered assistance in the form of interest-bearing promissory notes to institutions with a net worth below 3
percent of assets.
The Wylie plan would use a sliding scale to make up only a portion of a bank or S&L's losses. By contrast, HR 6267
would guarantee a thrift's net worth at 2 percent (or a commercial bank's at 4 to 5 percent), regardless of the size of
its losses.
Also, the Wylie substitute would use the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation's existing insurance funds
for any payments if an institution went under. HR 6267 would create a new Treasury account to back the
guarantees, with the fund subject to an $8.5 billion limit.
While Wylie claimed his program would be cheaper than HR 6267, Banking Committee Chairman St Germain, the
key sponsor of HR 6267, insisted his bill had “no cost, not one red penny.”
But the GOP plan, St Germain said, would cost $1.2 billion in cash outlays because the federal government would
pay interest on the promissory notes given to banks and S&Ls.
Another criticism raised about the Wylie amendment was that it did not require qualifying institutions to have
substantial investments in real estate loans, nor did it require thrifts to earmark funds for new mortgages.
“The role of thrift institutions in this country has always been to provide money for housing. To save those
institutions, and then simply let them make car loans, personal loans, corporate loans, international loans, makes no
sense whatsoever,” said Charles E. Schumer, D-N.Y.
Two amendments to HR 6267 were adopted by voice vote. An amendment by George C. Wortley, R-N.Y., provided
that subordinated creditors at the time guarantees were issued — primarily large banks and investment houses
owed money by the covered institutions — would not be paid ahead of the Treasury should an institution fail.
The other amendment, by Schumer, allowed mortgages on apartment buildings to satisfy the requirement that 60
percent of net new deposits be used for home mortgages.
Senate Committee Action
The Senate Banking Committee reported S 2879 Sept. 3 (S Rept 97 –536). The committee unanimously
approved the measure Aug. 19.
The bill, a stripped-down version of legislation promoted by Banking Chairman Garn, provided help to financially
strapped savings and loan institutions and mutual savings banks. The measure also authorized both these thrift
institutions and commercial banks to set up new short-term accounts that would be competitive with the popular
money market funds.
In late July, after it became apparent that he did not have the votes to push his highly controversial package
through the Banking panel, Garn agreed to strip the legislation of its most disputed provisions.
Chief among these were changes backed by the banking industry that would have allowed commercial banks to
offer mutual funds and underwrite revenue bonds.
The administration supported Garn's plan to deregulate the banking industry. Treasury Secretary Donald T. Regan
7/2/09 4:51 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal82-1163544&type=hitlist&num=4
said it was “unfortunate” these provisions had to be dropped, although the bill the commitee approved was “a sound
package.”
The savings and loan industry was buoyed by approval of the measure. William O'Connell, president of the U.S.
League of Savings and Loan Associations, called it a “major step forward in preserving and strengthening the
savings and loan system.”
The American Bankers Association (ABA), which represents commercial banks, called it a “sweetheart savings and
loan bill that leaves the commercial banking community at a greater competitive disadvantage than before. Little is
left in this legislation which addresses the special needs of the banking industry.”
Help for the Thrifts
The bill would establish a program allowing federally insured financial institutions to exchange capital notes with the
FDIC and the FSLIC.
If a thrift institution's net worth fell below a certain level, the government would add to the institution's assets by
authorizing federal regulators to give it interest-bearing certificates.
In return for the certificate, the thrift would give the insurer a promissory note. The note would be paid off later by
returning the certificate to the insurance agency.
In order to qualify for the assistance, the institution would have to meet several tests. It must have incurred losses
during the two previous quarters, comply with the terms established by the insuring agencies, have been solvent for
at least six months, and have at least 20 percent of its assets invested in residential mortgages or mortgage-backed
securities.
The initial level of aid, which could be modified by the insurance agencies, would be 30 percent of losses if net
worth was less than 3 percent, 40 percent of losses if net worth was less than 2 percent, and 50 percent of losses if
net worth was less than 1 percent.
Other provisions of the Senate bill would:
Expand the powers of both the FDIC and the FSLIC to assist troubled banks and thrift institutions through mergers. The
emergency merger provisions would expire after five years.
Expand the investment authority of thrift institutions by permitting them to invest up to 15 percent of assets in
commercial loans, up to 30 percent in consumer loans, up to 40 percent in non-residential real estate, and up to 100
percent in state and local obligations.
Authorize the Depository Institutions Deregulation Committee to phase out all interest rate differentials no later than July
1, 1982.
Require DIDC, no later than 60 days after enactment, to authorize a new account that effectively competed with money
market funds.
Override state laws and court decisions that barred due-on-sale clauses in home mortgages.
Senate Floor Action
The Senate passed HR 6267 by voice vote Sept. 24 after substituting the provisions of S 2879 as amended on the
Senate floor.
Several amendments were added to the Garn-spon-sored bill, including a committee amendment designed to win
the support of the American Bankers Association, which had opposed the committee bill.
Compromise Plan
The compromise eliminated interest-rate differentials between banks and S&Ls, expanded the authority of bank
service corporations and restricted S&L checking accounts to business customers who had borrowed from the
institution.
The amendment also eliminated interest-rate ceilings on the proposed new bank and thrift account to compete with
the money market funds. It stipulated that the initial minimum balance for such an account was not to exceed
$5,000. The amendment was adopted by voice vote.
The ABA later endorsed the bill and called the new account provision “a great victory for the public which has been
seeking an insured, convenient market rate account.”
Final Action
7/2/09 4:51 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 6 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal82-1163544&type=hitlist&num=4
Working quickly to complete action before the election recess, conferees reached agreement on the complex
legislation Sept. 29. They filed their report on the bill Sept. 30 (H Rept 97 –899). The final compromise generally
followed the Senate bill.
The Senate adopted the conference report by voice vote Sept. 30, and the House followed suit the next day, also
by voice vote, completing congressional action.
President Reagan signed the measure into law (PL 97 - 320 ) Oct. 15.
Features
Mortgage Assumption Plan Approved
The savings and loan/banking bill cleared Oct. 1 (HR 6267 — PL 97 - 320 ) included provisions overriding
state laws and judicial decisions that banned enforcement of due-on-sale clauses in mortgage contracts.
The banking bill provisions amplified a Supreme Court ruling restricting mortgage assumptions, while giving
homeowners in certain states a three-year reprieve from the bill's tightened regulations.
The provisions, a compromise worked out with the real estate and thrift industries, were included in the version of
the bill reported by the Senate Banking Committee Sept. 3 (S 2879 — S Rept 97–536). The Senate included
them in HR 6267, passed Sept. 24, and House conferees accepted the Senate plan with minor changes. (Action on
HR 6267, preceding page)
Due-on-sale clauses required homeowners to pay off a mortgage when they sold their homes, denying new buyers
the right to take over an old, low-cost loan. About 18 states had prohibited financial institutions from enforcing due-
on-sale in an effort to help promote home sales through mortgage assumptions during a period of high interest
rates.
The Supreme Court June 28 overturned state laws barring due-on-sale enforcement by federally chartered savings
and loan associations (S&Ls), in a victory for the thrift industry.
Provisions
HR 6267 took the court decision a step further by extending it to mortgages issued by commercial banks, mortgage
banks and state-chartered thrift institutions.
To appease beleaguered home sellers, however, the bill excluded from the new rules mortgages originated or
assumed during a “window period.” The period began on the date a state restricted due-on-sale enforcement and
ended on the bill's enactment date, Oct. 15.
The measure allowed three years for “window period” loans to fall under state laws forbidding financial institutions
from calling in mortgages with due-on-sale clauses. After three years, lenders could invoke the due-on-sale clauses
unless the state legislature reimposed due-on-sale bans for these loans.
Federal savings and loan associations and federal savings banks were exempt from the “window period” provision
because they fell under a 1976 Federal Home Loan Bank Board rule allowing due-on-sale clauses. The June 28
Supreme Court ruling upheld the bank board regulation.
In another concession to the real estate industry, the bill included non-binding language encouraging lenders to
negotiate blended rates when mortgages were assumed. With blended rates, lenders would meet borrowers halfway
by providing loans at a level between the original interest rate and the current market rate.
The bill also delayed until July 1, 1983, a ban on mortgage assumptions proposed by the Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corp.
The quasi-governmental corporation, known as Freddie Mac, announced in July that it no longer would allow buyers
to assume low-interest loans it had purchased. Freddie Mac is a member of the secondary mortgage market, which
serves as a link between investors and mortgage lenders.
Background
Due-on-sale clauses in mortgage contracts dated back to the late 1960s. Lenders began writing the clause into
contracts to guard against uncreditworthy buyers who might take over a loan. Later, however, banks and S&Ls
began to use the clause to hike the interest rates on assumed loans.
By preventing mortgage assumptions without a lender's approval, due-on-sale provisions gave banks and S&Ls
more flexibility during a period of volatile interest rates. With the skyrocketing rates of the past few years, lenders
said they needed the tool so they could unload old, fixed-rate mortgages and replace them with higher-yielding
loans.
“When an S&L or bank makes a mortgage loan for 30 years, it's not really making it for 30 years. They know that a
property generally turns over every five to seven years. They know after five to seven years they can bring the loan
up to market rate,” explained Carol Schatz, a senior vice president of the California Savings and Loan League.
7/2/09 4:51 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 7 of 7http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal82-1163544&type=hitlist&num=4
Court Decision
The Supreme Court ruling on due-on-sale clauses came in Fidelity Federal Savings & Loan Assn. v. de la Cuesta.
The court held, 6–2, that a California law prohibiting enforcement of due-on-sale clauses was preempted by federal
rules allowing federal S&Ls to include the clauses in contracts. The regulations were issued in 1976 by the Federal
Home Loan Bank Board, which oversees federal S&Ls.
The Supreme Court case arose after Fidelity Federal, a federally chartered S&L in Glendale, Calif., tried to invoke
due-on-sale clauses by foreclosing on three homes, each of which had been sold by transferring an old mortgage
held by Fidelity to new buyers. The new owners sued to block foreclosure, citing California law banning enforcement
of due-on-sale clauses.
A state court decided in favor of Fidelity, but an appellate court reversed it, holding that state law ruled the situation.
Fidelity appealed to the Supreme Court.
“Federal regulations have no less pre-emptive effect than federal statutes,” Justice Harry A. Blackmun wrote for the
Supreme Court majority. “A savings and loan's mortgage lending practices are a critical aspect of its ‘operation,’ over
which the [Federal Home Loan Bank] Board unquestionably has jurisdiction,” he wrote.
“Congress delegated power to the Board expressly for the purpose of creating and regulating federal savings and
loans so as to ensure that they would remain financially sound institutions able to supply financing for home
construction and purchase.”
Justices William H. Rehnquist and John Paul Stevens dissented, protesting that the majority view authorized an
undesirable federal intrusion into state affairs. Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr. did not take part in the case.
Document Citation
"Savings and Loan Aid, Banking Law Changes." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal82-1163544.
Originally published in CQ Almanac 1982 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1983).
http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal82-1163544 (accessed July 2, 2009).
Document ID: cqal82-1163544
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal82-1163544
© 1983, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
