7/3/09 11:45 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 5http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal86-1150438&type=hitlist&num=3
Document Outline
Provisions
House Action
Senate Action
Conference
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) Bill Clears
An article from CQ Almanac 1986
The Senate Oct. 17 cleared a three-year funding authorization (HR 4613 — PL 99 - 641 ) for the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) after acceding to House demands to continue to permit so-called “leverage”
contracts in precious metals.
Leverage contracts are long-term installment contracts for the purchase of silver, gold and other non-agricultural
commodities. They are not like futures contracts, which are commitments to buy and sell a commodity on a set date
at a price determined by auction in exchange markets. Instead, leverage contracts are traded privately by only two
authorized dealers: Monex of Newport Beach, Calif., and International Precious Metals of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.
Buyers of the contracts seldom accept delivery of the commodity but make installment payments in the hope that
the commodity's value will increase over time.
The bill, passed by the House July 16 by a 401-7 vote, limited leveraged contracts to gold, silver and platinum.
However, the bill allowed other companies to enter the business after a two-year period. (Vote 199, p. 60-H)
The Senate began debate Sept. 30 on its reauthorization measure, but final action was blocked by Pete Wilson, R-
Calif., who objected to the bill's banning all leveraged transactions in two years. However, Wilson agreed to let the
measure proceed after he was assured a seat on the conference committee. The Senate Oct. 6 by a vote of 83-1
approved HR 4613 after substituting the text of its bill (S 2045). (Vote 331, p. 54-S)
In conference, Wilson joined House members in sucessfully insisting on the House language to protect the practice
of leverage.
Proponents of leverage were aided by an unusual shift of position by the administration. Although the CFTC board,
comprised of presidential appointees, first proposed that leveraged transactions be abolished, officials in the Justice
Department later countermanded that position and lobbied in favor of retaining the House language to preserve the
special form of commodities trading.
The bill as agreed to by conferees in sessions Oct. 8-9 combined a Senate floor amendment on grain quality and a
similar House-passed bill (HR 5407), agreeing to prohibit exporters from adding dust and foreign material to grain at
points of export.
Conferees also rejected a Senate amendment, sponsored by Agriculture Committee Chairman Jesse Helms, R-N.C.,
to eliminate U.S. sugar quotas for countries that imported sugar from Cuba or failed to cooperate with U.S. anti-drug
efforts. (Drugs, p. 92)
The House by a vote of 274-130 deleted a Senate provision from the conference report (H Rept 99 –995),
which had the effect of rejecting the conference agreement. That provision would have transferred certain National
Forest System lands to the state of Nebraska. When that language had been deleted, members approved the
agreement by voice vote. (Vote 429, p. 120-H)
The Senate agreed to the change by voice vote Oct. 17, clearing the measure for the president, who signed it Nov.
10
Provisions
Major provisions of HR 4613:
Authorized fiscal 1987-89 appropriations for the CFTC at whatever level Congress determined necessary.
Restricted leverage contracts to precious metals (gold, silver and platinum), effectively prohibiting future leverage
transactions on foreign currencies and copper.
 
7/3/09 11:45 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 5http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal86-1150438&type=hitlist&num=3
Removed a CFTC moratorium on allowing new firms to enter the leverage business, effective in two years. The CFTC
must survey firms interested in entering the business and report to Congress within two years, offering proposals for
regulations to govern leverage dealing and a finding on whether such trading served an “economic purpose.”
Repealed the limitations on options trading, currently allowed on a trial basis, and required the CFTC to establish a
permanent program for commodity options trading on contract markets.
Clarified that fraud was prohibited in both off-exchange and on-exchange trading activities, giving the CFTC express
authority, along with individual states, to prosecute fraud committed by off-exchange operators.
Allowed the National Futures Association, an industry self-regulatory group, to impose disciplinary action against
members while those actions were being appealed to the CFTC. The bill also required an expedited appeals process.
Authorized the commission, on a majority vote, to serve investigatory subpoenas on persons outside the United States.
Permitted CFTC employees and commissioners to invest in commodities as long as no non-public information was used
and the transactions did not involve futures, options or leverage. The commission could develop appropriate exceptions
to the restrictions, such as permitting modest holdings in large mutual funds that hedged their portfolios in the futures
market.
Authorized the CFTC to seek appointment of a temporary receiver to protect and manage the property of persons while
the commission sought a restraining order to freeze assets or records to prevent suspected law violators from
destroying records or removing funds or property.
House Action
The House Agriculture Committee May 7 approved a three-year authorization (HR 4613) for the CFTC after
compromising on efforts to restrict leverage contracts.
The panel rejected 12-30 an amendment by Dan Glickman, D-Kan., to remove the special regulatory treatment of
leverage contracts and to effectively ban their use.
The committee then approved by voice vote a compromise offered by James M. Jeffords, R-Vt., to restrict lever-aged
contracts to gold, silver and platinum, removing the authority for contracts on copper and foreign currencies. In
addition, the CFTC in two years would have to permit a gradual expansion of the number of firms dealing in lever-
aged transactions.
The report (H Rept 99 –624) was filed June 6.
Before approving the bill by 401-7 July 16, the House at first accepted and then rejected Glickman's amendment to
end separate regulatory treatment of leverage transactions. The resounding vote masked sharply divided opinions on
the subject of leverage. (Vote 199, p. 60-H)
Glickman at first prevailed on a 219-193 vote. (Vote 195, p. 58-H)
But supporters of leverage claimed that many members did not understand the subject of the amendment, much
less the esoteric arguments for and against the practice of leverage.
E. Thomas Coleman, R-Mo., said many members were confused about what amendment was pending: other
expected floor amendments to HR 4613 dealt with the effect of cattle futures on beef markets.
“There are a lot of people who came into this chamber who thought that the Glickman amendment had something to
do with the cattle industry, that this had something to do with agricultural products,” Coleman said.
Coleman demanded another vote on the amendment, and on the second roll call, 33 members who previously
voted for the Glickman proposal switched sides and the House voted 192-218 to reject the plan. (Vote 198, p. 60-
H)
Other amendments included those by:
James R. Jones, D-Okla., directing the Agriculture Committee to study the economic purpose of trading in cattle futures,
whether the trading was being manipulated and what the economic effects were. Adopted, 406-1. (Vote 197, p. 58-H)
Wes Watkins, D-Okla., to end authority for futures trading in live cattle by December 1987 unless a majority of cattlemen
approved such markets in a referendum. Rejected, 142-265. (Vote 196, p. 58-H)
Summary: As passed by the House, HR 4613:
Reauthorized appropriations for the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for fiscal 1987-89.
7/3/09 11:45 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 5http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal86-1150438&type=hitlist&num=3
Restricted leverage contracts to precious metals (gold, silver and platinum), thereby prohibiting future leveraged
transactions on foreign currencies and copper.
Removed a moratorium on allowing new firms to enter the leverage business, effective in two years. The CFTC must
survey firms interested in entering the leverage business and report the results to Congress within two years, along with
proposals for regulations to govern leverage dealing and the commission's finding on whether such trading served an
“economic purpose.” The regulations would take effect 45 days after being submitted to Congress, although the
commission could provide for gradual entry of new firms.
Repealed the limitations on options trading, currently allowed on a trial basis, and required the commission to establish
a permanent program for commodity-options trading on contract markets.
Permitted commission employees and commissioners to invest in commodities as long as no non-public information
was used and the transactions did not involve futures, options or leverage. The commission could develop appropriate
exceptions to the restrictions, such as to permit modest holdings in large mutual funds that hedged their portfolios in the
futures market.
Required the Agriculture Committee to study the impact of cattle futures trading on the beef industry, and to report
legislation to the House if the study determined that manipulation of cattle futures trading adversely affected cattle
producers or the beef industry.
Senate Action
The Senate Agriculture Committee March 25 approved a measure (S 2045) that would have put leveraged
transactions for precious metals under the same federal trading rules as commodity futures contracts.
Because leveraged contracts were not sold on exchange markets, the CFTC was required to regulate them
separately from other transactions.
The CFTC argued that the separate regulation was neither logical nor necessary. S 2045 eliminated the requirement
for the special treatment for leveraged transactions, thereby barring leveraged transactions unless they were
conducted on an exchange and supervised by self-regulatory organizations.
But the panel adopted by voice vote an amendment by Richard G. Lugar, R-Ind., that delayed the repeal of the
separate regulations for leveraged contracts for two years after enactment.
Wilson, a junior member of the committee, argued that a sudden repeal could put the two companies dealing in
leveraged contracts out of business.
The report (S Rept 99-291) was filed April 29.
The bill was considered Sept. 24, and after substituting the text for that of the House-passed bill, HR 4613, the
Senate passed HR 4613 by a vote of 83-1 Oct. 6. (Vote 331, p. 54-S)
On Sept. 24, members by a vote of 71-26 tabled an amendment by James Abdnor, R-S.D., and other that would
have eliminated cattle as a subject for trading on the commodity market. Abdnor argued that the speculation in
cattle futures had created price instability that damaged the industry. (Vote 290, p. 48-S)
Helms urged members to vote against the proposal because the impact of such trading on the cattle market was
under study by the comptroller general.
The Senate adopted by voice vote a catchall amendment by Rudy Boschwitz, R-Minn., which gave the agriculture
secretary discretionary authority to vary the frequency of on-site inspection of processed meat products; sped up the
income-subsidy payments scheduled to be made to wheat producers for the 1986 crop; exempted the producers of
extra-long staple cotton from requirements that they comply with acreage controls on other government-subsidized
crops; and allowed highly erodible land previously planted to alfalfa and other grass crops to enter the conservation
reserve program.
Also by voice vote, the Senate agreed to an amendment by Charles E. Grassley, R-Iowa, tightening the guidelines on
the quality of grain shipped for export.
The Senate also passed by voice votes two amendments that would later prove to be major roadblocks to reaching
a final compromise with the House.
One amendment, offered by Agriculture Chairman Helms, would cut off sugar quotas to nations, notably Canada,
that imported sugar from Cuba, would eliminate quotas for countries involved in the drug trade that failed to
cooperate with U.S. anti-drug efforts, and would guarantee Caribbean Basin nations, Ecuador and the Philippines
1987 sugar quotas at or above 1986 levels, even though quotas were expected to drop for other countries.
The committee's ranking Democrat, Edward Zorinsky. Neb., also won quick floor approval for an amendment
requiring the U.S. Forest Service to cede over 173 acres of land to the state of Nebraska for use as park land.
Summary: As approved by the Senate, the bill:
7/3/09 11:45 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 5http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal86-1150438&type=hitlist&num=3
Clarified and strengthened the enforcement capabilities of the CFTC.
Made explicit that the anti-fraud provision of the Commodities Exchange Act applied to off-exchange transactions and
that the CFTC could serve administrative subpoenas outside the United States.
Allowed the CFTC, when seeking a restraining order against an alleged violator to freeze assets, to name a receiver to
administer the assets.
Lifted a provision of current law that permitted an automatic stay of disciplinary action against a member of the National
Futures Association while that action was being appealed.
Extended funding authorization through fiscal 1992 at whatever sums Congress considered appropriate.
Eased some restrictions that had barred a CFTC commissioner or employee from participating in certain transactions.
Conference
The dispute over leverage contracts dominated the conference to resolve differences.
Ultimately, divided Senate negotiators gave in to the unified House contingent, which had denied Glickman a seat
on the committee.
In sessions Oct. 8-9, House conferees held fast to their provision to permit the continued trading of precious metals
by certain businesses operating outside certified futures exchange markets.
Senior members of the Senate Agriculture Committee supported their chamber's view, but Wilson's presence gave
the Senate a devided front in the conference.
“On our side, we have two sides,” Helms admitted at the outset.
Lugar made only a token effort at a compromise before caving in to Wilson and the House negotiators.
Lugar cited Wilson's ability to prevent the conference report from returning to the Senate floor for final approval in
the waning days of the session. He said CFTC officials, who first pushed for the ban on leverage, finally told him
they would rather get reauthorization for the commission than lose the entire bill over the leverage controversy.
“It was a question of debating the issue for two hours or two minutes,” said Lugar, who opted for the latter “in the
interests of time.”
Sugar Amendment Dropped
Helms had no better fortune with his amendment dealing with sugar quotas.
Helms had put an identical amendment on the Senate's version of an omnibus drug bill (HR 5484), but the House
stripped it from a revised version of that bill Oct. 8.
Although Helms had no problem attaching the amendment to the CFTC bill Oct. 6, in conference he ran into one of
the House's peculiar “turf” battles. Sugar quotas were in the domain of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on
Trade, and eight members from that panel were conferees on the CFTC bill, along with members of the Agriculture
Committee.
Rep. Sam Gibbons, D-Fla., Trade Subcommittee chairman, insisted that the amendment would damage U.S.
relations with Canada and violate international trade agreements.
Gibbons promised a hearing and “possibly a marked up bill” in 1987 but rejected all of Helms” attempts at
compromise.
“This is something I care about very, very much,” Helms insisted, although he winced when Gibbons suggested that
“the best thing we could do for Caribbean Basin countries is to remove some of the textile tariffs” — an issue that hit
even closer to home for the North Carolina senator.
Senate conferees prevailed on the Senate floor amendment to allow wheat farmers to receive all of their income-
support payments in November, rather than partial payments in November and June. They combined a Senate floor
amendment on grain quality and a similar House-passed bill (HR 5407), agreeing to prohibit exporters from adding
dust and foreign material to grain at points of export.
Bill Bogs Down
After wending its way through the political controversies associated with leverage trading and sugar quotas, the
CFTC bill almost bogged down entirely over a seemingly innocuous Senate provision to turn U.S. forest land over to
the Nebraska Game and Parks Commission.
7/3/09 11:45 AMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 5 of 5http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal86-1150438&type=hitlist&num=3
Zorinsky's park land amendment drew strong objections from Rep. Charles Whitley, D-N.C., chairman of the
Agriculture Subcommittee on Forests. Whitley said Zorinsky's insistence that the federal land be given away would
set a dangerous precedent.
When the conference report went to the House on Oct. 15, Whitley led a successful fight to reject Zorinsky's
provision to give the land to his home state. The vote was 274-130. (Vote 429, p. 120-H)
Zorinsky, however, threatened to filibuster the conference report when it came up for a vote in the Senate Oct. 17.
Only the intervention of Agriculture Secretary Richard E. Lyng enabled the Senate to take final action on the CFTC
bill before adjourning for the year.
Lyng gave Zorinsky written assurance that the forest land would be turned over to the state of Nebraska in a
bargain-rate, 30-year lease arrangement. The deal meant the state could lease the 173-acre tract for 3 percent of
fair market value, rather than the usual 5 percent rate.
The Senate then cleared HR 4613 by voice vote.
Document Citation
"Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) Bill  Clears." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal86-
1150438. Originally published in CQ Almanac 1986 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1987).
http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal86-1150438 (accessed July 3, 2009).
Document ID: cqal86-1150438
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal86-1150438
© 1987, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
