"x"
"1" "48 PUBLIC LAWS-CH. 94-APR . 20, 1950 [64 STAT. [CHAPTER 94] April 20, 1950 [S . 2246] [Public Law 4751 Housing Act of 1950. AN ACT To amend the National Housing Act, as amended, and for other purposes . Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States o f America in Congress assembled, That this Act may be cited as the \"Housing Act of 1950\" . TITLE I-AMENDMENTS OF NATIONAL HOUSING ACT AMENDMENTS OF TITLE I OF NATIONAL HOUSING ACT 48 Stat. 1248. 12 U . S. C . § 1703; Sup. III, § 1703. 63 Stat . 905. 12 U S .C . Sup III, § 1703 (a) . 49 Stat . 1187 . 12U . S. C ., Sup . III, ˘ 1703 (a) . 62 Stat. 1275 . 12 U. S . C ., Sup. III, ˘ 1703 (b) . 53 Stat. 805. 12U. S . C ., Sup . III, ˘ 1703 (b) . 53 Stat . 805 . 12 U. S . 0 . § 1703 (f) . Effective date. 48 Stat. 1246 . 12 U. S . 0 . §§ 1702- 1706b ; Sup. 111, 5 1702 et seq. SEC . 101 . (a) Section 2 of the National Housing Act, as amended, is hereby amended- (1) by striking out of the first sentence of subsection (a thereof \"March 1, 1950\", and inserting in lieu thereof \"July 1, 1955 11 )- (2) by striking out the last sentence of subsection (a) and inserting in lieu thereof the following : \"The aggregate amount of principal obligations of all loans, advances of credit, and obli- gations purchased with respect to which insurance may be here- tofore or hereafter granted under this section and outstanding at any one time shall not exceed $1,250,000,000 .\" (3) by striking out of clause numbered (1) in subsection (b) \"$4,500\" and inserting in lieu thereof \"$3,000\" ; (4) by striking out of clause numbered (2) in subsection (b) the words \"residential or\" ; and (5) by striking out of subsection (f) the word \"title\" in each place it appears therein and inserting in lieu thereof the word \"section\" . (b) This section shall take effect as of March 1, 1950 . SEC . 102 . Title I of said Act, as amended, is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following new section 64 INSURANCE OF MORTGAGES Suburban housing. 48 Stat. 1246. 12 U. S. C . § 1701 and note ; Sup. III, § 1701c et seq . Post, pp. 51-54, 57- 59, 80, 81, 258, 259, 894 . 48 Stat. 1247. 12U . S . 0 . ˘ 1707 (a) . Aggregate principal obligations . \" SEC . 8 . (a) To assist in providing adequate housing for families of low and moderate income, particularly in suburban and outlying areas, this section is designed to supplement systems of mortgage insurance under other provisions of the National Housing Act by making feasible the insurance of mortgages covering properties in areas where it is not practicable to obtain conformity with many of the requirements essential to the insurance of mortgages on housing in built-up urban areas . The Commissioner is authorized, upon appli- cation by the mortgagee, to insure, as hereinafter provided, any mort- gage (as defined in section 201 of this Act) offered to him which is eligible for insurance as hereinafter provided, and, upon such terms as the Commissioner may prescribe, to make commitments for the insuring of such mortgages prior to the date of their execution or dis- bursement thereon : Provided, That the aggregate amount of principal obligations of all mortgages insured under this section and outstand- ing at any one time shall not exceed $100,000,000, except that with the approval of the President such aggregate amount may be increased at any time or times by additional amounts aggregating not more than $150,000,000 upon a determination by the President, taking into account the general effect of any such increase upon conditions in the building industry and upon the national economy, that such increase is in the public interest . 64 STAT .] 81sT LONG ., 2n SESS . - CH. 94-APR . 20, 1950 \"(b) To be eligible for insurance under this section, a mortgage shall- \"(1) have been made to, and be held by, a mortgagee approved by the Commissioner as responsible and able to service the mort- gage properly ; \"(2) involve a principal obligation (including such initial service charges, appraisal, inspection, and other fees as the Com- missioner shall approve) in an amount not to exceed $4,750, except that the Commissioner may by regulation increase this amount to not to exceed $5,600 in any geographical area where he finds that cost levels so require, and not to exceed 95 per centum of the appraised value, as of the date the mortgage is accepted for in- surance, of a property, urban, suburban, or rural upon which there is located a dwelling designed principally for a single-family residence, the construction of which is begun after the date of enactment of the Housing Act of 1950, and which is approved for mortgage insurance prior to the beginning of construction : Pro- vided, That the mortgagor shall be the owner and occupant of the property at the time of insurance and shall have paid on account of the property at least 5 per centum of the appraised value in cash or its equivalent, or shall be the builder constructing the dwelling, in which case the principal obligation shall not exceed $4,250, except that the Commissioner may by regulation increase this amount to not to exceed $5,000 in any geographical area where he finds that cost levels so require, and shall not exceed 85 per centum of the appraised value of the property : And pro- vided further, That the Commissioner finds that the project with respect to which the mortgage is executed is an acceptable risk, giving consideration to the need for providing adequate housing for families of low and moderate income particularly in suburban and outlying areas ; \"(3) have a maturity satisfactory to the Commissioner but not to exceed thirty years from the date of insurance of the mortgage ; \"(4) contain complete amortization provisions satisfactory to the Commissioner requiring periodic payments by the mortgagor not in excess of his reasonable ability to pay as determined by the Commissioner ; \"(5) bear interest (exclusive of premium charges for insurance and service charges, if any) at not to exceed 5 per centum per annum on the amount of the principal obligation outstanding at any time ; \"(6) provide, in a manner satisfactory to the Commissioner, for the application of the mortgagor's periodic payments (exclusive of the amount allocated to interest and to the premium charge which is required for mortgage insurance as hereinafter provided and to the service charge, if any) to amortization of the principal of the mortgage ; and \"(7) contain such terms and provisions with respect to insur- ance, repairs, alterations, payment of taxes, service charges, default reserves, delinquency charges, foreclosure proceedings, anticipation of maturity, and other matters as the Commissioner may in his discretion prescribe . \"(c) The Commissioner is authorized to fix a premium charge for the insurance of mortgages under this section, but in the case of any mortgage, such charge shall not be less than an amount equivalent to one-half of 1 per centum per annum nor more than an amount equiva- lent to 1 per centum per annum of the amount of the principal obliga- tion of the mortgage outstanding at any time, without taking into account delinquent payments or prepayments . Such premium charges 98352 ° -51-PT. I-4 49 Eligibility require- ments . Premium charge . Payment . 50 Release from liabil- ity . Evidence of eligibil- ity. Benefits to mort- gagee upon foreclosure . Post, p . 52. Applicable provi- sions . 52 Stat 13 . 12 U . S . C. § 1710 ; sup . III, § 1710 (f) . Post, p . 51 . Title I Housing In- surance Fund, Ante, p 48. Deposits or invest- ments. PUBLIC LAWS-CH. 941-APR. 20, 1950 [64 STAT. shall be payable by the mortgagee, either in cash or in debentures issued by the Commissioner under this section at par plus accrued interest, in such manner as may be prescribed by the Commissioner : Provided, That the Commissioner may require the payment of one or more such premium charges at the time the mortgage is insured, at such discount rate as he may prescribe not in excess of the interest rate specified in the mortgage . If the Commissioner finds, upon the presentation of a mortgage for insurance and the tender of the initial premium charge or charges so required, that the mortgage complies with the provisions of this section, such mortgage may be accepted for insurance by endorsement or otherwise as the Commissioner may prescribe . In the event that the principal obligation of any mortgage accepted for insur- ance under this section is paid in full prior to the maturity date, the Commissioner is further authorized, in his discretion, to require the payment by the mortgagee of an adjusted premium charge in such amount as the Commissioner determines to be equitable, but not in excess of the aggregate amount of the premium charges that the mort- gagee would otherwise have been required to pay if the mortgage had continued to be insured until such maturity date ; and in the event that the principal obligation is paid in full as herein set forth, the Commissioner is authorized to refund to the mortgagee for the account of the mortgagor all, or such portion as he shall determine to be equitable, of the current unearned premium charges theretofore paid . \"(d) The Commissioner may, at any time under such terms and conditions as he may prescribe, consent to the release of the mortgagor from his liability under the mortgage or the credit instrument secured thereby, or consent to the release of parts of the mortgaged property from the lien of the mortgage. \"(e) Any contract of insurance executed by the Commissioner under this section shall be conclusive evidence of the eligibility of the mort- gage for insurance, and the validity of any contract of insurance so executed shall be incontestable in the hands of an approved mortgagee from the date of the execution of such contract, except for fraud or misrepresentation on the part of such approved mortgagee . \"(f) In any case in which the mortgagee under a mortgage insured under this section shall have foreclosed and taken possession of the mortgaged property in accordance with the regulations of, and within a period to be determined by, the Commissioner, or shall, with the con- sent of the Commissioner, have otherwise acquired such property from the mortgagor after default, the mortgagee shall be entitled to receive the benefits of the insurance as provided in section 204 (a) of this Act with respect to mortgages insured under section 203 (b) (2) (D) of this Act. \"(g) Subsections (a), (d), (e), (f), (g), and (h) of section 204 of this Act shall be applicable to mortgages insured under this section except that all references therein to the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund or the Fund shall be construed to refer to the Title I Housing Insurance Fund, and all references therein to section 203 shall be con- strued to refer to this section : Provided, That debentures issued in connection with mortgages insured under this section 8 shall have the same tax exemption as debentures issued in connection with mortgages insured under section 203 of this Act . \"(h) There is hereby created a Title I Housing Insurance Fund which shall be used by the Commissioner as a revolving fund for carry- ing out the provisions of this section, and the Commissioner is hereby directed to transfer immediately to such Fund the sum of $1,000,000 from the account in the Treasury of the United States established pur- suant to the provisions of section 2 (f) of this title . \"(i) (1) Moneys in the Title I Housing Insurance Fund not needed for the current operations of the Federal Housing Administration 64 STAT.] 81sT CONG ., 2n SESS.-CH. 94-APR . 20, 1950 under this section shall be deposited with the Treasurer of the United States to the credit of the Title I Housing Insurance Fund, or invested in bonds or other obligations of, or in bonds or other obligations guar- anteed as to principal and interest by, the United States. The Com- missioner may, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, purchase in the open market debentures issued under the provisions of this section . Such purchases shall be made at a price which will pro- vide an investment yield of not less than the yield obtainable from other investments authorized by this section. Debentures so purchased shall be canceled and not reissued . \"(2) Premium charges, adjusted premium charges, and appraisal and other fees received on account of the insurance of any mortgage accepted for insurance under this section, the receipts derived from the property covered by such mortgage and claims assigned to the Com- missioner in connection therewith shall be credited to the Title I Housing Insurance Fund . The principal of, and interest paid and to be paid on debentures issued under this section, cash adjustments, and expenses incurred in the handling, management, renovation, and dis- posal of properties acquired under this section shall be charged to the Title I Housing Insurance Fund .\" 51 Credits to and charges against Fund . AMENDMENTS OF TITLE II OF NATIONAL HOUSING ACT SEC . 103. Section 203 (a) of said Act, as amended, is hereby amended by striking out the proviso and inserting the following : \"Provided, That the aggregate amount of principal obligations of all mortgages insured under this title and outstanding at any one time shall not exceed $7,750,000,000, except that with the approval of the President such aggregate amount may be increased at any time or times by additional amounts aggregating not more than $1,250,000,000 upon a determina- tion by the President, taking into account the general effect of any such increase upon conditions in the building industry and upon the national economy, that such increase is in the public interest .\" SEC . 104 . (a) Section 203 (b) (2) of said Act, as amended, is hereby amended to read as follows \"(2) Involve a principal obligation (including such initial serv- ice charges, appraisal, inspection, and other fees as the Commis- sioner shall approve) in an amount- \"(A) not to exceed $16,000 and not to exceed 80 per centum of the appraised value (as of the date the mortgage is accepted for insurance) of a property upon which there is located a dwelling or dwellings designed principally for residential use for not more than four families in the aggregate, irrespective of whether such dwelling or dwellings have a party wall or are otherwise physically connected with another dwelling or dwellings : Provided, That the Commissioner may increase such dollar amount limitation by not exceeding $4,500 for each additional family dwelling unit in excess of two located on such property, or \"((B) Repealed .) \"(C) not to exceed $9,450 and not to exceed the sum of (i) 95 per centum of $7,000 of the appraised value (as of the date the mortgage is accepted for insurance) and (ii) 70 per centum of such value in excess of $7,000 and not in excess of $11,000, of a property, urban, suburban, or rural, upon which there is located a dwelling designed principally for a single- family residence and which is approved for mortgage insur- ance prior to the beginning of construction : Provided, That with respect to mortgages insured under this paragraph the mortgagor shall be the owner and occupant of the property 48 Stat . 1248 . 12 U. S. C ., Sup . III, § 1709 (a) . Aggregate principal obligations . 48 Stat . 1248 . 12 U . S . C . § 1709 (b) (2) ; Sup . III, §1709 (b) (2) . Eligibility require- ments. Provision repealed . 52 Right of Commis. sioner to insure . Ante, p . 51 . 48 Stat. 1246. 12 U . S . C . § 1701 and note ; Sup . III, § 1701c et seq. Ante, p . 51 ; post, pp. 53, 54, 57-59, 80, 81, 258, 259, 894 . 62 Stat . 1273 . 12 U. S . C ., Sup. III, § 1710 (a) . Post, p. 54. 52 Stat. 17 . 12 U. S . C . § 1713 (b) ; Sup . III, § 1713 (b) . Rental projects for family living . PUBLIC LAWS-CH . 94-APR . 20, 1950 [64 STAT. and shall have paid on account of the property at least 5 per centum of the appraised value, or such larger amount as the Commissioner may determine, in cash or its equivalent, or \"(D) not to exceed $6,650, except that the Commissioner may by regulation increase this amount to not to exceed $7,600 in any geographical area where he finds that cost levels so require, and not to exceed 95 per centum of the appraised value (as of the date the mortgage is accepted for insurance) of a property, urban, suburban, or rural, upon which there is located a dwelling designed principally for a single-family residence and which is approved for mortgage insurance prior to the beginning of construction : Provided, That if the Com- missioner finds that it is not feasible, within the aforesaid dollar amount limitation, to construct dwellings containing three or four bedrooms without sacrifice of sound standards of construction, design, and livability, he may increase such dollar amount limitation by not exceeding $950 for each addi- tional bedroom (as defined by the Commissioner) in excess of two contained in such dwelling if he finds that such dwell- ing meets sound standards of design and livability as a three- bedroom unit or a four-bedroom unit, as the case may be : Pro- vided further, That with respect to mortgages insured under this paragraph the mortgagor shall be the owner and occu- pant of the property and shall have paid on account of the property at least 5 per centum of the appraised value in cash or its equivalent, or shall be the builder constructing the dwelling in which case the principal obligation shall not exceed $5,950 for a one-bedroom unit or a two-bedroom unit, $6,800 for a three-bedroom unit, or $7,650 for a unit having four or more bedrooms, except that the Commissioner may by regulation increase each of the maximum dollar amount limi- tations contained in this proviso by not to exceed $850 in any geographical area where he finds that cost levels so require, and shall not exceed 85 per centum of the appraised value of the property : And provided further, That the Commissioner may by regulation provide that the maximum dollar amount limitations in this paragraph (D) shall be fixed at lesser amounts where he finds, for any section or locality or for the country as a whole or at any time, that it is feasible, within such lesser dollar amount limitations, to construct dwellings for families of lower income without sacrifice of sound stand- ards of construction, design, and livability .\" (b) The repeal of section 203 (b) (2) (B) of said Act, as provided by subsection (a) of this section, shall not affect the right of the Com- missioner to insure under said section any mortgage (1- ) for the insurance of which application has been filed prior to the effective date of this Act, or (2) with respect to a property covered by a mortgage insured under any section of the National Housing Act, as amended . SEC . 105 . Section 204 (a) of said Act, as amended, is hereby amended by inserting in the second proviso in the last sentence after the words \"of this Act,\" the following : \"or under section 213 of this Act,\". SEC. 106. Section 207 (b) of said Act, as amended, is hereby amended by adding the following new paragraphs at the end thereof \"The insurance of mortgages under this section is intended to facili- tate particularly the production of rental accommodations, at reason- able rents, of design and size suitable for family living. The Com- missioner is, therefore, authorized and directed in the administration of this section to take action, by regulation or otherwise, which will direct the benefits of mortgage insurance hereunder primarily to those projects which make adequate provision for families with children, 64 STAT.] 81sT LONG ., 2D 53 SESS .-CH. 94-APR . 20, 1950 and in which every effort has been made to achieve moderate rental charges. \"Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, no mortgage shall be insured hereunder unless the mortgagor certifies under oath that in selecting tenants for the property covered by the mortgage he will not discriminate against any family by rea- son of the fact that there are children in the family, and that he will not sell the property while the insurance is in effect unless the purchaser so certifies, such certification to be filed with the Commis- sioner. Violation of any such certification shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not to exceed $500.\" SEC . 107 . Section 207 (c) of said Act, as amended, is hereby amended- (1) by amending paragraph numbered (2) to read as follows \"(2) not to exceed the sum of (i) 90 per centum of that portion of the estimated value of the property or project (when the pro- posed improvements are completed) which does not exceed $7,000 per family unit and (ii) 60 per centum of such estimated value in excess of $7,000 and not in excess of $10,000 per family unit : Provided, That except with respect to a mortgage executed by a mortgagor coming within the provisions of paragraph num- bered (b) (1) of this section, such mortgage shall not exceed the amount which the Commissioner estimates will be the cost of the completed physical improvements on the property or project exclusive of public utilities and streets and organization and legal expenses : And provided further, That the move limi- tations in this paragraph (2) shall not apply to mortgages on housing in the Territory of Alaska, but such a mortgage may involve a principal obligation in an amount not to exceed 90 per centum of the amount which the Commissioner estimates will be the replacement cost of the property or project when the pro- posed improvements are completed (the value of the property or project as such term is used in this paragraph may include the land, the proposed physical improvements, utilities within the boundaries of the property or project, architect's fees, taxes, and interest accruing during construction, and other miscella- neous charges incident to construction and approved by the Commissioner) ; and\" ; (2) by amending paragraph numbered (3) to read as follows : \"(3) not to exceed $8,100 per family unit (or $7,200 per family unit if the number of rooms in such property or project does not equal or exceed four and one-half per family unit) for such part of such property or project as may be attributable to dwelling use .\" ; and (3) by striking out of the first sentence of the last paragraph the words \", except that with respect to mortgages insured under the provisions of the second proviso of paragraph numbered (2) of this subsection, which mortgages are hereby authorized to have a maturity of not exceeding forty years from the date of insur- ance of the mortgage, such interest rate shall not exceed 4 per centum per annum\" . SEC . 108. Section 207 (d) of said Act, as amended, is hereby amended by striking out of the proviso the words \"one-half of\" . SEC . 109 . Section 207 (f) of said Act, as amended, is hereby amended by striking out \"section 210\" wherever appearing therein and inserting in lieu thereof \"section 210 and section 213\". SEC . 110 . Section 207 (g) of said Act, as amended, is hereby amended- (1) by striking out of clause (C) in the second sentence the words \"preservation of the property\" and inserting in lieu thereof oaCertification under § izu s s 1 sun . III, 1713 (c) . 12U at .1 8 1713(d> . 52 12 St S . C . § 1713 (f1 . izs : c ;u sup . § 1713 (g) . 111, 54 PUBLIC LAWS-CH. 94-APR. 20, 1950 52 Stat . 19 . 12 U . S . C., Sup. III, § 1713 (b) and note . 52 Stat . 20. 12 U . S . C . § 1713 (1) . .Ante, p. 53 . 63 Stat. 576. 12 U . S. C ., Sup . III, § 1715c (a) . Infra. 48 Stat . 1247. 12 LT. S . C. §§ 1707- 1715c; Sup. 111, ˘ 1709 et seq. Ante, supra . pp. 52, 53; 52 Stat. 16. 12 U. S. C . § 1713 (a) . [64 STAT. \"preservation of the property and any mortgage insurance premiums paid after default\" ; and (2) by striking out the proviso in the last sentence thereof and inserting the following : \"Provided, That the mortgagee in the event of a default under the mortgage may, at its option and in accordance with regulations of, and in a period to be determined by, the Commissioner, proceed to foreclose on and obtain posses- sion of or otherwise acquire such property from the mortgagor after default, and receive the benefits of the insurance as herein provided, upon (1) the prompt conveyance to the Commissioner of title to the property which meets the requirements of the rules and regulations of the Commissioner in force at the time the mortgage was insured and which is evidenced in the manner pre- scribed by such rules and regulations, and (2) the assignment to him of all claims of the mortgagee against the mortgagor or others, arising out of the mortgage transaction or foreclosure proceedings, except such claims that may have been released with the consent of the Commissioner . Upon such conveyance and assignment, the obligation of the mortgagee to pay the premium charges for insurance shall cease and the mortgagee shall be entitled to receive the benefits of the insurance as provided in this subsection, except that in such event the 1 per centum deduction, set out in (ii) hereof, shall not apply .\" SEC . 111 . Section 207 (h) of said Act, as amended, is hereby amended by striking out of the first sentence the words \"by the Com- missioner to any mortgagee upon the assignment of the mortgage to the Commissioner\" and inserting in lieu thereof \"under this section\" . SEC . 112. Section 207 (i) of said Act, as amended, is hereby amended by striking out the first sentence and inserting the following in lieu thereof : \"Debentures issued under this section shall be executed in the name of the Housing Insurance Fund as obligor, shall be signed by the Commissioner, by either his written or engraved signature, shall be negotiable, and shall be dated as of the date of default as deter- mined in subsection (g) of this section and shall bear interest from such date .\" SEC . 113 . Section 212 (a) of said Act, as amended, is hereby amended by deleting the words \"or under title VIII, a mortgage\" immediately after the words \"effective date of this section,\" and by inserting in lieu of the words deleted the following : \"or under section 213 of this title, or under title VII pursuant to any application filed subsequent to sixty days after the date of enactment of the Housing Act of 1950, or under title VIII, a mortgage or investment\" . SEC . 114. Title II of said Act, as amended, is hereby amended by inserting a new section reading as follows \" COOPERATIVE HOUSING INSURANCE \"SEC. 213 . (a) In addition to mortgages insured under section 207 of this title, the Commissioner is authorized to insure mortgages as defined in section 207 (a) of this title (including advances on such mortgages during construction), which cover property held by- \"(1) a nonprofit cooperative ownership housing corporation or nonprofit cooperative ownership housing trust, the permanent occupancy of the dwellings of which is restricted to members of such corporation or to beneficiaries of such trust ; or \"(2) a nonprofit corporation or nonprofit trust organized for the purpose of construction of homes for members of the corpora- tion or for beneficiaries of the trust ; 64 STAT.l 55 81sT CONG ., 2D SUSS .-CH. 94-APR . 20, 1950 which corporations or trusts are regulated or restricted for the pur- poses and in the manner provided in paragraphs numbered (1) and (2) of subsection (b) of section 207 of this title . \"(b) To be eligible for insurance under this section a mortgage on any property or project of a corporation or trust of the character de- scribed in paragraph numbered (1) of subsection (a) of this section shall involve a principal obligation in an amount- \"(1) not to exceed $5,000,000 ; \"(2) not to exceed $8,100 per family unit for such part of such property or project as may be attributable to dwelling use, except that if the Commissioner finds that the needs of individual mem- bers of the corporation or of individual beneficiaries of the trust could more adequately be met by per room limitations, the mort- gage may involve a principal obligation in an amount not to exceed $1,800 per room for such part of such project to be occupied by such members or beneficiaries ; and not to exceed 90 per centum of the amount which the Commissioner estimates will be the replace- ment cost of the property or project when the proposed improve- ments are completed : Provided, That (i) such maximum dollar amount shall be increased by $4 .50 per family unit or $1 per room, as the case may be, for each 1 per centum of the membership of the corporation or number of beneficiaries of the trust which consists of veterans of World War II and such maximum ratio of loan to cost shall be increased by one-twentieth of 1 per centum for each 1 per centum of the membership of the corporation or number of beneficiaries of the trust which consists of veterans of World War II, if evidence satisfactory to the Commissioner is furnished to establish that the benefits of such increase will accrue to the mem- bers of the corporation or beneficiaries of the trust who are vet- erans of World War II in the form of the elimination of the down payment which the corporation or trust would otherwise require in order to supply the difference between the amount of the mort- gage loan and the estimated replacement cost of the property or project, or (ii) if at least 65 per centum of the membership of the corporation or number of beneficiaries of the trust consists of veterans of World War II, the mortgage may involve a principal obligation not to exceed $8,550 per family unit or $1,900 per room as the case may be and not to exceed 95 per centum of the amount which the Commissioner estimates as the replacement cost of the property or project when the proposed improvements are completed . \"(c) To be eligible for insurance under this section a mortgage on any property or project of a corporation or trust of the character described in paragraph numbered (2) of subsection (a) of this section shall involve a principal obligation in an amount not to exceed $5,000,- 000 and not to exceed the greater of the following amounts \"(1) A sum computed on the basis of a separate mortgage for each single family dwelling (irrespective of whether such dwell- ing has a party wall or is otherwise physically connected with another dwelling or dwellings) comprising the property or proj- ect, equal to the total of each of the maximum principal obliga- tions of such mortgages which would meet the requirements of paragraph (A), paragraph (C), or paragraph (D) of section 203 (b) (2) of this Act if the mortgagor were the owner and occupant who had made any required payment on account of the property prescribed in such paragraph . \"(2) A sum equal to the maximum amount which does not exceed either of the limitations on the amount of the principal Ante, p. 52. Eligibility require- ments. Ante, p. 54. Ante, p . 54 . Ante, pp. 51, 52. 56 Ante, p . 55 . Mortgage provi- sions. Ante, p . 54 . Ante, p. 54 . Applicable provi- sions . 52 Stat. 16. 12 U. S . C, § 1713 ; Sup. III, § 1713 . Ante, pp . 53, 54. Supra . 52 Stat. 12. 12 U. S. C . § 1710; Sup, III, § 1710 . Ante, p . 52 . Ante, p. 54. Family units ; single person occupancy . 48 Stat . 1247. 12 U. S . C . §§ 1707- 1715c; Sup. III, § 1709 et seq. Ante, p. 48. 48 Stat. 1247 ; 55 Stat . 55 ; 63 Stat . 571 . 12 U . S. C . §§ 1707- 1715e, 1736-1743 ; Sup. 111, §§ 1709 et seq ., 1736 et seq ., 1748-1748g . Ante, pp . 51-54; post, pp. 57, 58, 97, 259. PUBLIC LAWS-CH. 91 APR. 20, 1950 [64 STAT . obligation of the mortgage prescribed by paragraph numbered (2) of subsection (b) of this section. \"(d) Any mortgage insured under this section shall provide for complete amortization by periodic payments within such terms as the Commissioner may prescribe but not to exceed forty years from the beginning of amortization of the mortgage, and shall bear interest (exclusive of premium charges for insurance) at not to exceed 4 per centum per annum on the amount of the principal obligation outstand- ing at any time . The Commissioner may consent to the release of a part or parts of the mortgaged property from the lien of the mortgage upon such terms and conditions as he may prescribe and the mortgage may provide for such release, and a mortgage on any project of a cor- poration or trust of the character described in paragraph numbered (2) of subsection (a) of this section may provide that, at any time after the completion of the construction of the project, such mortgage may be replaced, in whole or in part, by individual mortgages covering each individual dwelling in the project in amounts not to exceed the unpaid balance of the blanket mortgage allocable to the individual property . Each such individual mortgage may be insured under this section . Property covered by a mortgage, insured under this section, on a prop- erty or project of a corporation or trust of the character described in paragraph numbered (1) of subsection (a) of this section may include such commercial and community facilities as the Commissioner deems adequate to serve the occupants . \"(e) The provisions of subsections (d), (e), (g), (h), (i), (j), (k), (1), (m), (n), and (p) of section 207 of this title shall be applicable to mortgages insured under this section except individual mortgages insured pursuant to subsection (d) of this section covering the indi- vidual dwellings in the project, and as to such individual mortgages the provisions of subsections (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), and (h) of section 204 shall be applicable . \"(f) The Commissioner is authorized, with respect to mortgages insured or to be insured under this section, to furnish technical advice and assistance in the organization of corporations or trusts of the char- acter described in subsection (a) of this section and in the planning, development, construction, and operation of their housing projects . In the performance of, and with respect to, the functions, powers, and duties vested in him by this section, the Commissioner, notwithstand- ing the provisions of any other law, shall appoint an Assistant Com- missioner to administer the provisions of this section under the direc- tion and supervision of the Commissioner . \"(g) Nothing in this Act shall be construed to prevent the insurance of a mortgage under this section covering a housing project designed for occupancy by single persons, and dwelling units in such a project shall constitute family units within the meaning of this section .\" SEC. 115 . The National Housing Act, as amended, is hereby amended by adding the following section under title II thereof after section 214 : \" ISSUANCE OF COMMITMENT'S \"SEC . 215 . The Commissioner is hereby authorized to process appli- cations and issue commitments with respect to insurance of mortgages under section 8 of title I, title II, title VI, or title VIII of this Act, even though the permanent mortgage financing may not be insured under this Act, and in the event the mortgage is not so insured the Commissioner is authorized to charge an additional application fee determined by him to be reasonable . The Commissioner is authorized to make such rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this section .\" 64 STAT .] 81sT CONG., 2D SESS.-CH . 94 APR. 20, 1950 57 AMENDMENTS OF TITLE III OF NATIONAL HOUSING ACT SEC . 116. Section 301 (a) of said Act, as amended, is hereby amended- (1) by striking out of paragraph (1) the words \"title VIII of\" and inserting in lieu thereof the words \"title VIII, or section 8 of title I of\" ; (2) by striking out of paragraph (1) the words \"Provided, however,\" and inserting in lieu thereof the following : \"Provided, That no deposit or fee required or charged by the Association for the purchase of a mortgage hereunder shall exceed 1 per centum of the original principal obligation of such mortgage : And pro- vided further,\" ; (3) by striking out the proviso at the end of paragraph (1) (E) and inserting the following : \" : Provided, That this clause (2) shall not apply to (nor shall any terms therein include) any mortgage which is (i) guaranteed after October 25, 1949, under section 501, or guaranteed after the effective date of the Housing Act of 1950 under section 502 of the Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944, as amended, and made for the construction or pur- chase of a family dwelling or dwellings in an original principal amount or amounts which does not exceed $10,000 per dwelling unit, or (ii) insured under section 803 of this Act ; and\" ; (4) by amending paragraph (1) (F) to read : \"(F) no loan guaranteed under section 501 or section 502 of the Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944, as amended, which is made to finance all or part of the purchase price or construction cost of a dwelling, shall be purchased by the Association (except pursuant to a com- mitment made or issued prior to the effective date of this para- graph) unless the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs certifies that such dwelling conforms with minimum construction require- ments prescribed by him : Provided, That this clause (4) shall become effective ninety days after the date of enactment of the Housing Act of 1950 .\" ; and (5) by adding the following new subparagraph at the end thereof : \"(G) The Association after the effective date of this subparagraph may contract to purchase only those eligible mort- gages which are guaranteed or insured at the time of the contract .\" SEC . 117. Section 302 of the National Housing Act, as amended, is hereby amended by striking out \"$2,500,000,000\" and inserting in lieu thereof \"$2,750,000,000\" . SEC . 118 . Section 305 of said Act, as amended, is hereby amended by adding the words \"or credit, or otherwise dispose of\" immediately after the word \"cash\" . 62 Stat.1207 ; 63 Stat . 576, 906 . 12 U . S .C ., Sup. III, § 1716 (a) . 58 Stat . 292 . 38 U . S . C § 694a . Post, p . 75 . 58 Stat . 292 . 38 U . S . C . § 694b . Post, p. 75 . 63 Stat . 571. 12U. S . C ., Sup . III, 1748b. Post, p . 75. Purchase restric- tion . 63 Stat . 905 . 12 U. S. C ., Sup. III, § 1717 . 48 Stat . 1254 . 12 U . S. C ., Sup. III, § 1720 . AMENDMENTS OF TITLE VI OF NATIONAL HOUSING ACT SEC . 119 . Section 603 (a) of the National Housing Act, as amended, is hereby amended by adding the following new paragraphs at the end thereof \"Notwithstanding the first proviso of this subsection, mortgages may be insured under section 609 and section 611 of this title if the aggregate amounts of principal obligations of mortgages insured under said sections plus the aggregate amount of principal obligations of mortgages insured under section 610 of this title do not exceed the limitation contained in said section 610 upon the aggregate amount of principal obligations of mortgages insured pursuant to said section . \"Notwithstanding the second proviso of this subsection, mortgages otherwise eligible for insurance under section 608 of this title may be hereafter insured thereunder if the application for such insurance was 55 Stat. 56 . 12 U . S . C ., Sup. 111, § 1738 (a) . Mortgage insurance. 61 Stat . 193 . 12 U . S . C ., Sup. III, § 1744. Post, p . 58. 56 Stat . 303 . 12 U . S . C . § 1743; Sup. III, § 1743 . 58 56 Stat . 303 . 12 U . S C . § 1743; Sup . III, § 1743 . 61 Stat . 777 12 L . S . C ., . Sup . III, § 1745. Further authoriza- tion . 54 Stat . 681 . 42 U . S . C . §§ 1501- 1505 ; Sup . III, §§ 1501- 1505 notes . 62 St at . 1271 . 12 U . S . C., Sup . III, § 1746. PUBLIC LAWS-CH. 94-APR . 20, 1950 [64 STAT. received in any field office of the Federal Housing Administration on or before March 1, 1950, and for such purpose the aggregrate amount of principal obligations authorized to be insured under section 608 of this title is increased by not to exceed $500,000,000 .\" SEC . 120. Section 610 of said Act, as amended, is hereby amended- (1) by inserting in paragraph (4) of the first sentence, immedi- ately after the words \"section 603 (b) (2) \", the words \"or section 603 (b) (5)\" ; (2) by striking out in the proviso the word \"and\" after the words \"date of insurance\" and by striking out the period at the end of the proviso and inserting a comma and the following : \"and (4) bear interest (exclusive of premium charges) at not to exceed 5 per centum per annum on the amount of the principal obligation out- standing at any time if such mortgage covers property on which there is located a dwelling designed principally for residential use for not more than four families in the aggregate, irrespective of whether such dwelling or dwellings have a party wall or are other- wise physically connected with another dwelling or dwellings, or bear interest at not to exceed 41/2 per centum per annum on the amount of the principal obligation outstanding at any time if such mortgage covers property upon which there is located a dwelling or dwellings designed principally for residential use for more than four families .\" ; (3) by inserting before the last paragraph thereof the following new paragraph : \"The Commissioner is further authorized to insure or to make commitments to insure in accordance with the provisions of this section any mortgage executed in connection with the sale by the Public Housing Administration, or by any public housing agency with the approval of the said Administration, of any housing (including any property acquired, held, or constructed in connec- tion with such housing or to serve the inhabitants thereof) owned or financially assisted pursuant to the provisions of Public Law 671, Seventy-sixth Congress .\" ; and (4) by striking out of the last sentence thereof the words \"which is the security for a mortgage insured pursuant to the provisions of this section .\" and inserting the words of the character described in this section.\". SEC . 121 . Section 611 of said Act, as amended, is hereby amended- (1) by striking out in clause (A) of subsection (b) (3) the figure \"80\" and inserting in lieu thereof the figure \"85\", and by amending clause (B) of said subsection to read as follows : \"not to exceed a sum computed on the individual dwellings comprising the total project as follows : $5,950 or 85 per centum of the valuation, whichever is the lower amount, with respect to each single-family dwelling : Provided, That if the Commissioner finds that it is not feasible, within the dollar amount limitation in clause (B) on the principal obligation of the mortgage, to construct dwellings con- taining three or four bedrooms without sacrifice of sound stand- ards of construction, design, and livability, he may increase such dollar amount limitation by not exceeding $850 for each additional bedroom (as defined by the Commissioner) in excess of two con- tained in each such dwelling if he finds that such dwelling meets sound standards of design and livability as a three-bedroom unit or a four-bedroom unit, as the case may be, but the amount computed under clause (B) for each such dwelling shall not exceed, in any event, $7,650 .\" ; (2) by striking the period at the end of subsection (b) (4) and inserting the following : \", and the mortgage may provide that, 64 STAT.I 59 81sT CONG ., 2n SESS .-CH . 94-APR . 20, 1950 upon the completion of the construction of the project, such mort- gage may be replaced by individual mortgages covering each individual dwelling in the project . Each such individual mort- gage may be insured under this section with the mortgagor being either the builder who constructed the dwellings or the owner and occupant of the dwelling at the time, and where the mortgagor is the owner and occupant, may involve a principal obligation in such amount and have such maturity and interest rate as a mort- gage eligible for insurance under section 203 (b) (2) (D) of this Act .\" ; and (3) by striking out the period at the end of subsection (d) and inserting the following : `covering a project described in subsec- tion (b) of this section, and the provisions of subsections (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), and (h) of section 604 shall be applicable to the individual mortgages insured pursuant to subsection (b) (4) of this section covering individual dwellings in the project .\". SEC . 122 . The National Housing Act, as amended, is hereby amended by inserting a period after the word \"Senate\" in the first sentence of section 1 and striking out the balance of said first sentence, and by striking out the word \"Administrator\" wherever it appears in said Act, as amended, and substituting in lieu thereof the word \"Com- missioner\" . Ante, p . 52. 55 Stat . 58 . 12 U . S . C . § 1739 ; Sup. III, § 1739. 48 Stat . 1246 . 12 U . S. 0 . § 1701 and note; Sup. III, § 1701c et seq . Ante, pp. 51-54, 57, 58 ; post, pp . 80, 81, 258, 259, 894. TITLE II-DISPOSAL OF WAR AND VETERANS' HOUSING SEC . 201 . Public Law 796, Eightieth Congress, approved June 28, 1948, is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following new section \"SEC. 7. The Act entitled `An Act to expedite the provision of hous- ing in connection with national defense, and for other purposes', ap- proved October 14, 1940, as amended, is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following new title 62 Stat. 1062. 42 U . S. C ., Sup . III, §§ 1506,1524, 1553, 1575 and note . 54 Stat. 1125 . 42 U . S . C . ch . 9 note ; §§ 1521-1574 ; Sup . III, § 1521 et seq . Post, pp . 72, 73. \"'TITLE VI a HOUSING DISPOSITION \" `SEC. 601 . (a) Upon the filing of a request therefor as herein pre- scribed, the Administrator shall (subject to the provisions of this sec- tion) relinquish and transfer, without monetary consideration, to any State or political subdivision thereof, local housing authority, local public agency, nonprofit organization, or educational institution, all contractual rights (including the right to revenues and other proceeds) and all property right, title, and interest of the United States in and with respect to (1) any temporary housing located on land owned or controlled by such transferee and in which the United States has no leasehold or other property interest, and (2) housing materials which have been made available to the transferee by the Administrator pur- suant to section 502 of this Act . \" `(b) Upon the filing of a request therefor as herein prescribed, the Administrator may (subject to the provisions of this section) relin- quish and transfer, without monetary consideration other than that specifically required by this subsection, to any State, county, munici- pality, or local housing authority, or to any educational institution where the housing involved is being operated for its student veterans or where the land underlying the housing is in the ownership of two or more educational institutions, or to any other local public agency or nonprofit organization where the housing involved has been made available by the United States to such agency or organization pur- suant to section 502 of this Act or where the Administrator determines Transfer of rights in temporary housing and housing materials. 59 Stat . 260. 42 U . S. C . § 1572 ; Sup. III, § 1572 . Post, p. 73 . supra . 60 Post, p . 61. Request for transfer . Ante, p. 59 ; post, p. 63. PUBLIC LAWS-CH . 94-APR . 20, 1950 [64 STAT . that the housing involved is urgently needed by parents of persons who served in the armed forces during World War II and died of service- connected illness or injury (in which case the preferences in section 601 (d) (1) shall not apply), all right, title, and interest of the United States in and with respect to any temporary housing (excluding com- mercial facilities which the Administrator determines are suitable for separate disposal and community facilities which the Administrator determines should be disposed of separately) located on land in which the United States has a property interest through ownership, lease, or otherwise, under the following conditions \"` (1) If the land is owned by the United States and under the jurisdiction of the Administrator, the transferee shall have pur- chased such land from the Administrator at a price substantially equal to the cost to the United States of the land (including survey, title examination, and other similar expenses incident to acquisi- tion but excluding the cost or value of all improvements thereto by the United States other than extraordinary fill), or, if the Administrator determines the amount of such cost to be nominal or not readily ascertainable, at a price which the Administrator determines to be fair and reasonable. Payment for such land shall be made in full at the time of sale or in not more than ten equal annual installments (the first of which shall be paid within one year from the date of conveyance) all of which shall be secured as determined by the Administrator with interest from the date of conveyance at the going Federal rate of interest at the time of conveyance . \"`(2) If the land is owned by the United States and not under the jurisdiction of the Administrator, the transferee shall have purchased such land from the Federal agency having jurisdiction thereof . The Federal agency having jurisdiction of any such land is hereby authorized to sell and convey the same to any such trans- feree on the terms authorized herein except that the determina- tions required to be made by the Administrator shall be made by the agency having jurisdiction of such land . \"` (3) If the United States does not own the land but has an interest therein through lease or otherwise, the transferee shall (i) where it is not the landowner, obtain the right to possession of such land for a term satisfactory to the Administrator, (ii) obtain from the landowner a release (or, if the transferee is the landowner, furnish a release) of the United States from all liability in connec- tion therewith, including any liability for removal of structures or restoration of the land, except for any rental or use payment due at the time of transfer, and (iii) reimburse the United States for the proportionate amount of any payments made by the United States for the right to use the land and for taxes or payments in lieu of taxes for any period extending beyond the time of the transfer, and (iv) if the interest of the United States is not under the juris- diction of the Administrator, the transferee shall obtain a transfer or release of the interest of the United States from the Federal agency having jurisdiction, which transfers and releases by such Federal agencies are hereby authorized on such terms as the head of the respective agency determines to be in the public interest . \"`(c) The filing of a request under subsection (a), (b), (g), or (h) of this section must be made on or before December 31, 1950, unless the Administrator shall, in any specific case, authorize the filing of a request subsequent to such date but on or before June 30, 1951, and, in any such case, the Administrator may extend, for a specified period not beyond December 31, 1951, the time hereinafter prescribed for com- plying with all conditions to the relinquishment or transfer . Such 64 STAT.I 61 81sT CONG ., 2D SESS .-CH. 94-APR. 20, 1950 request shall be in the form of a resolution adopted by the governing body of the applicant, except that, in the case of a State, such request may be in the form of a written request from the governor, and, in the case of a local housing authority (other than the Alaska Housing Authority), or a local public agency organized specifically and solely for the purpose of slum clearance and community redevelopment, shall be accompanied by a resolution of the governing body of the munici- pality or county approving the request for transfer . Such request shall be accompanied by either (1) a final opinion of the chief law officer or legal counsel of the applicant to the effect that it has legal authority to make the request, to accept the transfer of and operate any property involved, and to perform its obligations under this title, or (2) a preliminary opinion of such officer or counsel concerning the legal authority of the applicant with respect to the proposed relin- quishment or transfer including a statement of the reasons for not fur- nishing the final opinion with the request and the time required to furnish such opinion . If a request has been submitted as herein pro- vided, the applicant shall comply with all conditions to the relinquish- ment or transfer (including the furnishing of the final legal opinion) on or before June 30, 1951 : Provided, That, in any case where the applicant is unable to comply with all conditions to the relinquish- ment or transfer because of the need for the enactment of State legis- lation or charter amendment, such date shall be June 30, 1952, and may be extended by the Administrator, upon request in a particular case, to December 31, 1952 . The Administrator shall act as promptly as practicable on any request which complies with the provisions of this section and is supported as herein required, and shall as promptly as practicable arrange for the making of any survey or the perform- ance of other work necessary to the transfer : Provided, That, not- withstanding the provisions of this section, the Administrator may at any time, except with respect to housing for which a request has been or may be submitted under subsection (a) of this section, remove, dispose of, or retain any temporary housing, or part thereof, in accordance with any provision of this Act . \"'(d) No relinquishment or transfer with respect to temporary housing shall be made under this section unless the transferee repre- sents in its request therefor that it proposes, to the extent permitted by law \"' (1) As among eligible applicants for occupancy in dwellings of given sizes and at specified rents, to extend the following pref- erences in the selection of tenants \"'First, to families which are to be displaced by any low-rent housing project or by any public slum-clearance or redevelopment project initiated after January 1, 1947, or which were so displaced within three years prior to making application for admission to such housing ; and as among such families first preference shall be given to families of disabled veterans whose disability has been determined by the Veterans' Administration to be service-con- nected, and second preference shall be given to families of deceased veterans and servicemen whose death has been determined by the Veterans' Administration to be service-connected, and third pref- erence shall be given to families of other veterans and servicemen ; \" `Second, to families of other veterans and servicemen ; and as among such families first preference shall be given to families of disabled veterans whose disability has been determined by the Veterans' Administration to be service-connected, and second preference shall be given to families of deceased veterans and serv- icemen whose death has been determined by the Veterans' Admin- istration to be service-connected : Provided, That if the transferee Power of disposal or retention of tempo- rary housing . Ante, p . 59. Restrictions on re- linquishments and transfers. Preferences in selec- tion of tenants . 62 Ante, p. 59. Waiver of require. ments . Post, pp. 72, 73 . Accrual of proceeds to U . S. PUBLIC LAWS-CH . 94-APR. 20, 1950 [64 STAT. is an educational institution it may limit such preferences to student veterans and servicemen, and their families, and may, in lieu of such preferences, make available to veterans or servicemen and their families accommodations in any housing of the insti- tution equal in number to the accommodations relinquished or transferred to it : And provided further, That, notwithstanding such preferences, if the transferee is a State, political subdivision, local housing authority, or local public agency, it will, in filling vacancies in housing transferred under subsection 601 (b) hereof, give such preferences to military personnel and persons engaged in national defense or mobilization activities as the Secretary of Defense or his designee prescribes to such transferee. 11 ' (2) Not to dispose of any right, title, or interest in the prop- erty (by sale, transfer, grant, exchange, mortgage, lease, release, termination of the leasehold, or any other relinquishment of inter- est) either (i) for housing use on the present site or on any other site except to a State or political subdivision thereof, local housing authority, a local public agency, or an educational or eleemosy- nary institution, or (ii) for any other use unless the governing body of the municipality or county shall have adopted a resolu- tion determining that, on the basis of local need and acceptability, the structures involved are satisfactory for such use and need not be removed : Provided, That this representation will not apply to any disposal through demolition for salvage, lease to tenants for residential occupancy, or lease of nondwelling facilities for the continuance of a use existing on the date of transfer, or where such disposal is the result of a bona fide foreclosure or other proceeding to enforce rights given as security for a loan to pay for land under this section : And provided further, That nothing contained in this paragraph shall be construed as applicable to the disposition of any land or interest therein after the removal of the structures therefrom . \"` (3) To manage and operate the property involved in accord- ance with sound business practices, including the establishment of adequate reserves . \"'(1) Whenever the structures involved, or a substantial portion thereof, are terminated for housing use and are not to be used for a specific nonhousing use, to promptly demolish such structures terminated for housing use and clear the site thereof . \"`(e) Any relinquishment or transfer by the Administrator under this section shall constitute a waiver of the requirements of section 313 of this Act (and any contractual obligations pursuant thereto) for removing the housing involved if the request for such relinquishment or transfer was made, as authorized herein, by the governing body of the municipality or county, or by the local housing authority, or, in other cases, if, prior to or within six months after the date of the relin- quishment or transfer, there is filed with the Administrator a resolution of such governing body specifically approving (1) the unconditional waiver of such requirements or (2) the waiver of such requirements subject to conditions specified in the resolution . Any such conditions shall not affect the waiver of removal requirements hereunder, and the United States shall assume no responsibility for compliance therewith . \"'(f) In any relinquishment or transfer under this section, the net revenues and other proceeds from such housing to which the United States is entitled on the basis of periodic settlements shall continue to accrue to the United States until the end of the month in which the relinquishment or transfer is made, and the obligation of the trans- feree to pay such accrued amounts shall not be affected by this section . The Administrator may charge to the transferee the cost to the United 64 STAT.] 63 81sT CONG ., 2D SESS.-CH. 94-APR. 20, 1950 States of any survey, title information, or other item incidental to the transfer. \" `(g) Upon the filing of a request therefor as herein prescribed, the Administrator may (subject to the provisions of this section) relin- quish and transfer, without monetary consideration other than pay- ment for land involved as specifically required by subsection (b) hereof, to any local public agency organized specifically and solely for the purpose of slum clearance and community redevelopment in a municipality in which the total number of persons, who on December 31, 1948, were living in temporary family accommodations provided by the United States or any agency thereof since September 8, 1939, exceeded the total population of such municipality as shown by the 1940 census, all right, title, and interest of the United States in and with respect to any temporary housing located in such municipality under the conditions set forth in said subsection (b) . Notwithstand- ing the provisions of subsection (b) of this section, the Administrator shall not relinquish or transfer any right, title, or interest of the United States in and with respect to any temporary housing situated in such a municipality except as set forth in this subsection . \"`(h) Upon the filing of a request therefor as herein prescribed, the Administrator may (subject to the provisions of this section except the provisions of subsection (d) hereof) relinquish and transfer to any municipality, without monetary consideration other than pay- ment for the land involved as specifically required by subsection (b) hereof, all right, title, and interest of the United States in and with respect to unoccupied temporary housing of masonry construction located in such municipality : Provided, That such housing has been wholly or partially stripped of trim and fixtures prior to the enact- ment of this title and the municipality adopts a resolution determin- ing that the structures, with proposed improvements, will be suitable for long-term housing use . \"'SEC. 602. The requirements of section 313 of this Act shall not apply to any temporary housing- \"`(a) for which such requirements have been waived pursuant to section 505 or section 601 of this Act ; \" t (b) transferred by the Administrator to the jurisdiction of the Department of the Army, the Navy, or the Air Force pur- suant to section 4 of this Act ; \" `(c) disposed of by the Administrator under title I or title III of this Act for long-term housing or nonhousing use without any requirement for removal where the governing body of the munici- pality or county has adopted a resolution determining that, on the basis of local need and acceptability, the structures involved are (1) satisfactory for such long-term use or (2) satisfactory for such long-term use if conditions prescribed in such resolution, affecting the physical characteristics of the project, are met : Provided, That any such conditions shall not affect the disposal of any temporary housing hereunder, and the United States shall assume no responsibility for compliance with such conditions : And pro- vided further, That any housing disposed of for housing use in accordance with this subsection (c) shall thereafter be deemed to be housing accommodations, the construction of which was com- pleted after June 30, 1947, within the meaning of section 4 of the Housing and Rent Act of 1947, as amended, relating to preference or priority to veterans of World War II or their families ; or 4\" (d) disposed of or relinquished by the Administrator prior to the enactment of this section subject to such requirements or contractual obligations pursuant thereto, where the governing body of the municipality or county on or before December 31, Transfer of rights to certain local public agencies . Ante, p . 59 . Transfer of rights to unoccupied tempo- rary housing. Ante, p . 61 . Ante, p . 59. Nonapplicabiity . Post. pp . 72, 73 . 62 Stat . 1063. 42 U . S . C ., Sup. III, ˘ 1575. Ante, p. 59 ; post, p . 73 . 56 Stat . 12 . 42 U . S . C ., Sup. III, § 1524 . 55 Stat . 361, 363 . 42 U. S . C . §§ 1521- 1524, 1541-1553 ; Sup. III, § 1521 et seq , 1541 et seq . Post, pp. 72, 73. 61 Stat . 195 . 50 U. S . C ., Sup . III, app. § 1884 . Post, p . 255 . 64 Demountable hous- ing. Temporary housing remaining under juris- diction of Administra- tor. Ante, p. 59. Ante, p . 63 . Ante, p. 59. Ante, p. 61. 61 Stat . 193 . 50 U . S. C ., Sup. III, ipp. § 1881 notes. Post, p . 255 . PUBLIC LAWS-CH . 94-APR. 20, 1950 [64 STAT. 1950, adopts a resolution as provided in (c) above ; and any con- tract obligations to the Federal Government for the removal of such housing shall be relinquished upon the filing of such a resolution with the Administrator . \"'SEC . 603. With respect to any housing classified, prior to the enactment of this section, by the Administrator as demountable, the Administrator shall, as soon as practicable but not later in any event than December 31, 1950, and after consultation with the communities affected, redetermine (taking into consideration local standards and conditions) whether such housing is of a temporary or permanent character, and after such redetermination shall dispose of such housing in accordance with the provisions of this title . \" `SEC. 604. With respect to temporary housing remaining under the jurisdiction of the Administrator on land under his control, the Administrator shall (1) permit vacancies, occurring or continuing after July 1, 1951, to be filled only by transfer of tenants of other accommodations in the same locality being removed as required by this Act ; (2) notify, on or before March 31, 1952, all tenants to vacate the premises prior to July 1, 1952 ; (3) promptly after July 1, 1952, cause actions to be instituted to evict any tenants still remaining ; and (4) remove (by demolition or otherwise) all dwelling structures as soon as practicable after they become vacant : Provided, That in any case where a request for relinquishment or transfer has been filed pursuant to section 601 hereof and where under the provisions of section 601 (c) hereof the date for compliance with all conditions to the relinquish- ment or transfer shall have been extended, each of the foregoing dates shall be extended for a period of time equal to the period of the exten- sion under section 601 (c) : And provided further, That nothing heretofore in this section shall apply (1) to any temporary housing in any municipality in which the total number of persons, who on Decem- ber 31, 1948, were living in temporary family accommodations pro- vided by the United States or any agency thereof since September 8, 1939, exceeds 30 per centum of the total population of such munici- pality as shown by the 1940 census, nor (2) to any temporary housing as to which the local governing body has adopted a resolution as provided in section 602 (c) hereof, nor (3) to any temporary housing for which a request has been submitted in accordance with section 601 (b) of this Act, but which has not been relinquished or transferred solely because the applicant has been unable to obtain from the land- owner the right to possession of the land on reasonable terms as determined by the Administrator : Provided, That, in filling vacancies in such housing, the preferences set forth in section 601 (d) (1) shall be applicable and that families within such preference classes shall be eligible for admission to such housing, nor (4) to any temporary housing in which accommodations have been reserved, prior to the enactment of this section, for veterans attending an educational insti- tution if (i) such institution certifies that the accommodations are urgently needed for such veterans and submits facts showing, to the satisfaction of the Administrator, that all reasonable efforts have been made by the institution to find other accommodations for them and (ii) such institution agrees to reimburse the Housing and Home Finance Agency for any financial loss to the Agency in the operation of the accommodations after June 30, 1951 : And provided further, That with respect to any temporary housing under the jurisdiction of the Administrator the maximum rental shall be that in effect on April 1, 1949, unless the Housing Expediter shall approve a petition for an increase in accordance with the fair net operating income formula in effect from time to time under the Housing and Rent Act of 1947, as amended, on grounds of hardship to the landlord : Provided, That, if 64 STAT.] 65 81sT CONG ., 2n SESS.-CH. 94-APR. 20, 1950 such housing is not in an area where rent control is in effect at the time pursuant to that Act, an increase may be granted by the Administrator on the basis of such formula . \"'SEC . 605 . (a) The Administrator may continue by lease or con- demnation any interest less than a fee simple in lands heretofore acquired by the Administrator for national defense or war housing or for veterans' housing (whether of permanent or temporary char- a cter), or held by any Federal agency in connection therewith, and may acquire, by purchase or condemnation, a fee simple title to or lesser interest in any such lands if the Administrator determines that the acquisition of such fee simple or lesser interest is necessary to pro- tect the Government's investment or to maintain the improvements constructed thereon, or that the cost of fulfilling the Government's obligation to restore the property to its original condition would equal or exceed the cost of acquiring the title thereto . 4 4 b) In any case in which the Administrator holds, on or after April ' 1, 1950, an interest in land acquired by the Federal Government for national defense, war housing, or veterans' housing and where (1) the term of such interest (as prescribed in the taking or in the lease or other instruments) is for the \"duration of the emergency\" or \"duration of the war\", or \"duration of the emergency\" or \"dura- tion of the war\" plus a specific period thereafter, or for some similarly prescribed term, and (2) the rental, award, or other consideration which the Federal Government is obligated to pay or furnish for such interest gives the owner of the land less than an annual return, after payment of real estate taxes, of 6 per centum of the lowest value placed on such land by an independent appraiser, hired by the Govern- ment to make such appraisal based on the value of the land before the acquisition of the Government's interest therein, the Administrator is authorized, upon request of the owner of the land and, notwith- standing any existing contractual or other rights or obligations, to increase the amount of future payments for such interest in order to give the owner of the land a return for the Government's use thereof not exceeding the 6 per centum annual return described in (2) of this subsection : Provided, That this subsection shall not affect any payment heretofore made or any future payment accepted by an obligee, nor shall this subsection limit the consideration which may be paid for the use of any land beyond the existing term of the Government's interest therein . \" `(c) Notwithstanding any other provisions of law unless hereafter enacted expressly in limitation hereof, moneys shall be deposited in the reserve account established pursuant to subsection (a) and sub- section (b) of section 303 of this Act (which account is hereby con- tinued subject to the limitation as to amount specified in subsection (c) thereof) and all moneys deposited in such reserve account shall be and remain available for any or all of the purposes specified in said subsections (a) or (b) or in this section 605 without regard to the time prescribed in subsection (c) of section 303 with respect to covering moneys in such account into miscellaneous receipts . Moneys in such reserve accounts shall also be available for the payment of necessary expenses (which shall be considered nonadministrative expenses) in connection with administering (1) transfers pursuant to section 601, (2) redeterminations of the temporary or permanent character of demountable housing pursuant to section 603, (3) changes in land tenure and revisions in the consideration payable to land- owners pursuant to subsection 605 (a) and 605 (b), and (4) transfers of permanent war housing for low-rent use pursuant to section 606 . Moneys in such reserve account shall also be available for the purpose of making improvements to, or alterations of, any permanent housing 98352°-51-P T. 1 -5 Lands acquired for national defense, war housing, etc. Authority to in. crease payments. Deposits ; availabil- ity of moneys. 60 star . 9 . 42 U. S . C . § 1543 ; Sup . III, § 1543 . Post, p. 73. Ante, p. 69. Ante, p. 64. Post, p . 66 . PUBLIC LAWS-CH . 94-APR. 20, 1950 66 Conveyance of cer- tain housing projects. 50 Stat . 588. 42 U . S . C . §§ 1401- 1430; Sup . III, 1401 et seq . Post, p . 73. Post, p. 69 . Post, p. 69. [64 STAT. or part thereof if (1) the dwelling structures therein are designed for occupancy by not more than four families and are to be sold separately and (2) such improvement or alteration is requested by the local governing body as a condition to the acceptance of the dedication of streets or utilities or is necessary for compliance with local law or regulation relating to the continued operation or occupancy of the housing by a purchaser . \"`SEC . 606. (a) The Administrator is hereby specifically author- ized to convey the following housing projects to the following local public housing agencies respectively, if- \"`(1) on or before December 31, 1950, (i) the conveyance is requested by the governing body of the municipality or count and (ii) the public housing agency has demonstrated to the satisfac- tion of the Administrator that there is a need for low-rent hous- ing (as such term is defined in the United States Housing Act of 1937) within the area of operation of such public housing agency which is not being met by private enterprise ; \" `(2) the Administrator determines that the project requested will meet such need in whole or in part, and is suitable for low-rent housing use ; and \"`(35 on or before June 30, 1951, the governing body of the municipality or county enters into an agreement with the public housing agency (satisfactory to the Public Housing Administra- tion, hereinafter referred to as \"Administration\") providing for local cooperation and payments in lieu of taxes not in excess of the amount permitted by subsection (c) (5) of this section, and the public housing agency enters into an agreement with the Administration (in accordance with subsection (c) of this sec- tion) for the administration of the project : State Alabama Arkansas California Project number 1041 1061 1062 1031 1033 1034 1035 1036 1101 1102 1072 1076 1073 3023 4031 4161 4141 4103 4104 4108 4121 4171 4174 Connecticut 6091 6024 6031 6032 6101 6041 6213 District of Columbia____ 49012 49017 49044 Local public housing agency Housing Authority of District of Birmingham . Housing Authority of Greater Gadsden . Housing Authority of Greater Gadsden. Housing Board of Mobile . Housing Board of Mobile . Housing Board of Mobile . Housing Board of Mobile . Housing Board of Mobile . Housing Board of Mobile . Housing Board of Mobile . Housing Authority of Sylacauga . Housing Authority of Sylacauga. Housing Authority of City of Talladega . Housing Authority of City of Conway . Housing Authority of City of Fresno . Housing Authority of County of Kern . Housing Authority of County of Kern . Housing Authority of City of Los Angeles. Housing Authority of City of Los Angeles. Housing Authority of City of Los Angeles. Housing Authority of City of Paso Robles . Housing Authority of City of Richmond. Housing Authority of City of Richmond . Housing Authority of City of Bristol. Housing Authority of Town of East Hartford . Housing Authority of City of New Britain . Housing Authority of City of New Britain . Housing Authority of City of New Haven . Housing Authority of City of Waterbury . Housing Authority of City of Waterbury . National Capital Housing Authority . National Capital Housing Authority. National Capital Housing Authority . 64 - STAT.] State 81sT CONG., 2o SESS .-CH . 94-APR . 20, 1950 Project number Florida 8052 8121 8062 8011 8082 8084 8085 8131 8041 Georgia 9071 9061 9063 9041 9042 9043 11081 11082 11111 11112 12071 12021 16051 Illinois Indiana Louisiana Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New York North Carolina Ohio Oregon Pennsylvania 18095 18096 18097 18098 . 19051 19021 19022 19061 19023 20042 26021 27021 28044 28021 28072 28111 30031 30032 30042 30033 30039 30034 30071 30082 31023 31024 33031 33033 33021 33071 33074 33075 33112 33261 33262 33041 33043 35021 36051 36058 36041 36042 36044 36151 36152 36061 Local public housing agency Housing Authority of City of Jacksonville . Housing Authority of City of Lakeland . Housing Authority of City of Miami . Housing Authority of City of Orlando . Housing Authority of City of Pensacola . Housing Authority of City of Pensacola . Housing Authority of City of Pensacola . Housing Authority of City of Sebring . Housing Authority of City of West Palm Beach . Housing Authority of City of Albany. Housing Authority of Macon . Housing Authority of Macon . Housing Authority of Savannah . Housing Authority of Savannah . Housing Authority of Savannah . Madison County Housing Authority. Madison County Housing Authority. Winnebago County Housing Authority . Winnebago County Housing Authority. Housing Authority of City of Fort Wayne . Housing Authority of City of South Bend . Housing Authority of Parish of East Baton Rouge. Housing Authority of Baltimore City . Housing Authority of Baltimore City . Housing Authority of Baltimore City . Housing Authority of Baltimore City . Boston Housing Authority . Chicopee Housing Authority . Chicopee Housing Authority. Pittsfield Housing Authority. Springfield Housing Authority . Housing Commission of Detroit . Housing Authority of City of Las Vegas . Housing Authority of City of Manchester. Housing Authority of City of Camden . Housing Authority of City of Long Branch. Housing Authority of City of Newark . Housing Authority of Town of Phillipsburg . Buffalo Municipal Housing Authority . Buffalo Municipal Housing Authority . Elmira Housing Authority . Lackawanna Municipal Housing Authority . Lackawanna Municipal Housing Authority . Niagara Falls Housing Authority. Niagara Falls Housing Authority. Massena Housing Authority . Housing Authority of City of Wilmington . Housing Authority of City of Wilmington . Canton Metropolitan Housing Authority. Canton Metropolitan Housing Authority . Cincinnati Metropolitan Housing Authority . Cleveland Metropolitan Housing Authority . Cleveland Metropolitan Housing Authority . Cleveland Metropolitan Housing Authority . Lorain Metropolitan Housing Authority . Lorain Metropolitan Housing Authority . Lorain Metropolitan Housing Authority . Warren Metropolitan Housing Authority . Warren Metropolitan Housing Authority . Housing Authority of Portland . Housing Authority of County of Beaver . Housing Authority of County of Beaver . Housing Authority of Bethlehem . Housing Authority of Bethlehem . Housing Authority of Bethlehem . Allegheny County Housing Authority . Allegheny County Housing Authority. Housing Authority of County of Lawrence . 67 68 PUBLIC LAWS-CH . 94-APR. 20, 1950 State Pennsylvania Project number 36021 36031 36011 36012 36014 36015 36016 36101 36212 36295 Rhode Island South Carolina Tennessee Texas . 37013 38023 38061 38041 38042 40022 40023 40011 40025 41064 41065 41133 41031 41131 41101 41103 Virginia 41072 41032 41141 41121 44131 44132 44133 44135 44136 44065 44074 44086 Washington Conveyance of per-m )projects. ane t w r housi g 45043 45277N 45315N 45133 45052 45053 45054 45055 45056 45122 [64 STAT . Local public housing agency Housing Authority of City of Erie . Housing Authority of County of Lycoming. Housing Authority of Philadelphia . Housing Authority of Philadelphia . Housing Authority of Philadelphia . Housing Authority of Philadelphia . Housing Authority of Philadelphia . Housing Authority of City of Pittsburgh . Allegheny County Housing Authority . Housing Authority of City of York . Housing Authority of City of Newport. Housing Authority of City of Charleston . Housing Authority of City of Charleston . Housing Authority of City of Spartanburg . Housing Authority of City of Spartanburg . Jackson Housing Authority . Milan Housing Authority. Nashville Housing Authority . Trenton Housing Authority . Housing Authority of City of Corpus Christi . Housing Authority of City of Corpus Christi . Housing Authority of City of Freeport . Housing Authority of City of Houston . Housing Authority of City of Lake Jackson . Housing Authority of City of Mineral Wells. Housing Authority of City of Mineral Wells. Housing Authority of City of Orange . Housing Authority of City of Pasadena. Housing Authority of City of Texarkana . Housing Authority of City of Wichita Falls . Alexandria Redevelopment and Housing Authority . Alexandria Redevelopment and Housing Authority . Alexandria Redevelopment and Housing Authority . Alexandria Redevelopment and Housing Authority . Alexandria Redevelopment and Housing Authority. Newport News Redevelopment and Housing Authority. Norfolk Redevelopment and Housing Author- ity. Portsmouth Redevelopment and Housing Authority. Housing Authority of City of Bremerton. Housing Authority of County of Clallam. Housing Authority of County of Clallam . Housing Authority of County of King . Housing Authority of City of Seattle . Housing Authority of City of Seattle . Housing Authority of City of Seattle. Housing Authority of City of Seattle. Housing Authority of City of Seattle. Housing Authority of City of Vancouver. In addition to the authority of the Administrator under the first sen- tence of this subsection, the Administrator is hereby specifically author- ized to convey any permanent war housing project to a local public housing agency if requested in writing, within sixty days after the enactment of the Housing Act of 1950, by such agency or the executive head of the municipality (or of the county or parish if such project is not in a municipality) within which the project is located, or by the Governor of the State where an agency of the State has authority to operate the project : Provided, That any conveyance by the Adminis- trator pursuant to this sentence shall be subject to the same conditions and requirements as provided in this section with respect to a project specifically designated herein . 64 STAT.] Upon the conveyance by the Administrator of any such project pursuant to the provisions of this section, such project shall constitute and be deemed to be \"low-rent housing\" as that term is used and defined in the United States Housing Act of 1937 (and to be a low- rent housing project assisted pursuant to that Act, within the meaning of subsection 502 (b) of the Housing Act of 1948), except that no capital grant or annual contribution shall be made by the Federal Gov- ernment with respect to such project. Any instrument of conveyance by the Administrator stating that it is executed under this Act shall be conclusive evidence of compliance therewith insofar as any title or other interest in the property is concerned . \" (c) The agreement between the public housing agency and the Administration required by subsection (a) of this section shall contain the following conditions and requirements, and may contain such fur- ther conditions, requirements, and provisions as the Administration determines- \"`(1) during a period of forty years following the conveyance the project shall be administered as low-rent housing in accordance with subsections 2 (1) and 2 (2) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 : Provided, That if at any time during such period the pub- lic housing agency and the Administration agree that the project, or any part thereof, is no longer suitable for use as low-rent hous- ing, the project, or part thereof, shall with the approval of the Administration be sold by the public housing agency after which the agreement shall be deemed to have terminated with respect to such project or part thereof except that the proceeds from such sale, after payment of the reasonable expense thereof, shall be paid to the Administration ; \" 1 (2) the public housing agency shall, within six months fol- lowing the conveyance, initiate a program for the removal of all families residing in the project on the date of conveyance who are ineligible under the provisions of the United States Housing Act of 1937 for continued occupancy therein, and shall have required such ineligible tenants to vacate their dwellings within eighteen months after the initiation of such program : Provided, That mili- tary personnel as designated by the Secretary of Defense or his designee shall not be subject to such removal until eighteen months after the date of conveyance ; i 1 1 (3) annually during the term of such agreement, the public housing agency shall pay to the Administration all income from the project remaining after deducting the amounts necessary (as determined pursuant to regulations of the Administration) for (i) the payment of reasonable and proper costs of operating, maintaining, and improving such project, (ii) the payments in lieu of taxes authorized hereunder, (iii) the establishment and mainte- nance of reasonable and proper reserves as approved by the Administration, and (iv) the payment of currently maturing installments of principal of and interest on any indebtedness incurred by such public housing agency with the approval of the Administration ; \" `(4) during the term of such agreement, the project shall be exempt from all real and personal property taxes levied or imposed by the State, city, county, or other political subdivisions ; \"'(5) for the tax year in which the conveyance is made and the next succeeding tax year annual payments in lieu of taxes may be made to the State, city, county, or other political subdivisions in amounts not in excess of the real property taxes which would be paid to such State, city, county, or other political subdivisions if the project were not exempt from taxation ; and thereafter, during \"`(b) 69 81sT CONG ., 2n SESS .-CH. 94-APR. 20, 1950 \"Low-rent hous- ing.\" 50 Stat . 888. 42 U. S . C. °° 1401- 1430 ; Sup. III, ° 1401 et seq . Post, p . 73 . 62 Stat . 1284. 42 U . S. 0 ., Sup . III, ° 1404a. Terms of agreement . Ante, p. 66. 60 Stat . 888. 42 U . S . C . ° 1402 ; Sup . III, ° 1402. 60 Stat . 888. 42 U . S. C . °° 1401- 1430; Sup . III, ° 1401 et seq . Post, p . 73. 70 63 Stat. 423 . 42 U. S . C ., Sup. III, ° 1410 (g) . S0 Stat . 888. 42 U . S. C . °° 1401- 1430 ; Sup . III, ° 1401 et seq. Post, p. 73 . Miscellaneous re- ceipts . Ante, p . 69. Disposal of perma- nent war housing . Ante, p . 66. Order of preference in purchase of desig- nated dwellings. PUBLIC LAWS-CH . 91 APR. 20, 1950 [64 STAT . the term of such agreement, payments in lieu of taxes with respect to the project may be made in annual amounts which do not exceed 10 per centum of the annual shelter rents charged in such project ; \"'(6) in selecting tenants for such project, the public housing agency shall give such preferences as are prescribed by subsection 10 (g) of the United States Housing Act of 1937, except that for one year after the date of conveyance of a project, the public hous- ing agency shall, to the extent permitted by law, give such prefer- ences, by allocation or otherwise, to military personnel as the Secretary of Defense or his designee prescribes to the public housing agency ; and \" `(7) upon the occurrence of a substantial default in respect to the requirements and conditions to which the public housing agency is subject (as such substantial default shall be defined in such agreement), the public housing agency shall be obligated at the option of the Administration, either to convey title in any case where, in the determination of the Administration (which deter- mination shall be final and conclusive), such conveyance of title is necessary to achieve the purposes of this title and the United States Housing Act of 1937, or to deliver possession to the Admin- istration of the project, as then constituted, to which such agree- ment relates : Provided, That in the event of such conveyance of title or delivery of possession, the Administration may improve and administer such project as low-rent housing, and otherwise deal with such housing or parts thereof, subject, however, to the limitations contained in the applicable provisions of the United States Housing Act of 1937. The Administration shall be obli- gated to reconvey or to redeliver possession of the project, as constituted at the time of reconveyance or redelivery, to such pub- lic housing agency or to its successor (if such public housing agency or a successor exists) upon such terms as shall be pre- scribed in such agreement and as soon as practicable after the Administration shall be satisfied that all defaults with respect to the project have been cured, and that the project will, in order to fulfill the purposes of this title and the United States Housing Act of 1937, thereafter be operated in accordance with the terms of such agreement. Any prior conveyances and reconveyances, deliveries and redeliveries of possession shall not exhaust the right to require a conveyance or delivery of possession of the project to the Administration pursuant to this paragraph upon the subse- quent occurrence of a substantial default. \"`(d) At the end of each fiscal year, the total amount of payments during such year to the Administration in accordance with subsection (c) of this section shall be covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts. \"`SEC . 607. (a) The Administrator shall, subject to the provisions of this section, dispose of permanent war housing, other than housing conveyed pursuant to section 606 of this Act, as promptly as practicable and in the public interest . \" `(b) Preference in the purchase of any dwelling structure designed for occupancy by not more than four families and offered for separate sale shall be granted to occupants and to veterans over other prospective purchasers for such period as the Administrator may determine and in the following order \"` (1) a veteran who occupies a unit in the dwelling structure to be sold and who intends to continue to occupy such unit ; \"` (2) a nonveteran who occupies a unit in the dwelling struc- ture to be sold and who intends to continue to occupy such unit ; 64 STAT.] 71 81sT CONG., 2n SESS.-CH. 94-APR. 20, 1950 \"`(3) a veteran who intends to occupy a unit in the dwelling structure to be sold . \" `Subject to the above order of preference, the Administrator may establish subordinate preferences for any such dwelling structure . As used in this section 6'07 (b), the term \"veteran\" shall include a veteran, a serviceman, or the family of a veteran or a serviceman, or the family of a deceased veteran or serviceman whose death has been de- termined by the Veterans' Administration to be service-connected . \" `(c) In the case of any housing project required by this section to be disposed of, which is not offered for separate sale of separate dwell- ing structures designed for occupancy by not more than four families, such project may be sold as a whole or in such portions as the Admin- istrator may determine . On such sales of an entire projector portions thereof consisting of more than one dwelling structure or of an in- dividual dwelling structure designed for occupancy by more than four families, first preference shall be given for such period not less than ninety days nor more than six months from the date of the initial offer- ing of such project or portions thereof as the Administrator may determine, to groups of veterans organized on a mutual ownership or cooperative basis (provided that any such group shall accept as a mem- ber of its organization, on the same terms, subject to the same condi- tions, and with the same privileges and responsibilities, required of, and extended to other members of the group any tenant occupying a dwelling unit in such project, portion thereof or building, at any time during such period as the Administrator shall deem appropriate, starting on the date of the announcement by the Administrator of the availability of such project, portion thereof or building for sale), ex- cept that a first preference for said period of not less than ninety days nor more than six months shall be given to any group organized on a mutual or cooperative basis, which, with respect to its proposed pur- chase of a specific housing project or portions thereof, has, prior to August 1, 1949, been granted an exception by the Administrator from the sales preference provisions of Public Regulation 1 of the Housing and Home Finance Agency and has been designated as a preferred purchaser. cc (d) The Administrator shall provide an equitable method of selecting the purchasers to apply when preferred purchasers (or ' groups of preferred purchasers) in the same preference class or con- taining members in the same preference class compete with each other . \" `(e) Any housing disposed of in accordance with this section shall after such disposal be deemed to be housing accommodations the con- struction of which was completed after June 30, 1947, within the mean- ing of section 4 of the Housing and Rent Act of 1947, as amended, relating to preference or priority to veterans of World War Il or their families. \"'(f) Sales pursuant to this section shall be upon such terms as the Administrator shall determine : Provided, That full payment to the Government for the property sold shall be required within a period not exceeding twenty-five years with interest on unpaid balances at not less than 4 per centum per annum, except that in the case of proj- ects initially programmed as mutual housing communities under the defense housing program, the terms of sale shall not require a down payment and shall provide for full payment to the United States over a period of forty-five years with interest on unpaid balances at not more than 3 per centum per annum. \" `SEC. 608. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any land acquired under this or any other Act in connection with war or vet- erans' housing, but upon which no dwellings are located at the time Subordinate prefer- ences . \"Veteran.\" Sale of entire proj- ect, etc. 61 Stat. 195 . 50 U . S . C . app . § 1884. Post, p . 255 . Terms of sale. Sales of land. 72 Conveyances for National Guard pur- poses. Definition of terms . 54 Stat . 872 ; 55 Stat . 14, 197, 810. 42 U . S . C. ° 1552 note ; Sup . III, ° 1524 note . Post, p. 73. 62 Stat. 1063 . 42 U . S . C., Sup. III, ° 1575. Post, p. 73 . 50 St at. 888. 42 U . S . C. °° 1401- 1430; Sup. III, ° 1401 et seq . Post, p . 73 . 50 Stat. 888 . 42 U . S. C . °° 1401- 1430 ; Sup. III, ° 1401 et seq . Post, p. 73. 57 Stat . 388 . 42 U . S. C ., Sup. III, ° 1553, Post, p . 73 . Removal of tempo- rary housing. PUBLIC LAWS-CH . 94--APR. 20, 1950 [64 STAT. of sale, may be sold at fair value, as determined by the Administrator, to any agency organized for slum clearance or to provide subsidized housing for persons of low income . \" `SEC. 609 . Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Admin- istrator is authorized to convey by quit claim deed, without consid- eration, to any State for National Guard purposes any land, together with any nondwelling structures thereon, held under this or any other Act in connection with war or veterans' housing : Provided, That the United States shall be saved harmless from or reimbursed for such costs incidental to the conveyance as the Administrator may deem proper : Provided further, That the conveyance of such land shall con- tain the express condition that if the grantee shall fail or cease to use such land for such purposes, or shall alienate (or attempt to alienate) such land, title thereto shall, at the option of the United States, revert to the United States . \" ` SEC . 610 . As used in this title, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them below, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise \" t (a) The term \"governing body of the municipality or county\" means the governing body of the city, village, or other municipality having general governmental authority over the area in which the housing involved is located or, if the housing is not located in such a municipality, the term means the governing body of the county or parish in which the housing is located, or if the housing is located in the District of Columbia the term means the Board of Commissioners of said District. \"`(b) The term \"housing\" means any housing under the jurisdic- tion of the Administrator (including trailers and other mobile or port- able housing) constructed, acquired, or made available under this Act or Public Law 781, Seventy-sixth Congress, approved September 9, 1940, or Public Laws 9, 73, or 353 Seventy-seventh Congress, approved, respectively, March 1, 1941, gay 24, 1941, and December 17, 1941, or any other law, and includes in addition to dwellings any struc- tures, appurtenances, and other property, real or personal, acquired for or held in connection therewith . \" `(c) The term \"temporary housing\" means any housing (as defined in (b)) which the Administrator has determined to be \"of a temporary character\" pursuant to this Act and shall also include any such housing after rights thereto have been relinquished or transferred under this title or section 505 of this Act. \" `(d) The terms \"veteran\" and \"serviceman\" mean \"veteran\" and \"serviceman\" as those terms are defined in the United States Housing Act of 1937. \"'(e) The term \"State\" means any State, Territory, dependency, or possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia . 11 ' ( f) The term \"going Federal rate of interest\" means \"going Fed- eral rate\" as that term is defined in the United States Housing Act of 1937 . 1\"(g) The term \"United States Housing Act of 1937\" means the provisions of that Act, including all amendments thereto, now or hereafter adopted, except provisions relating to the initial construction of a project or dwelling units.\"' SEC . 202. Section 313 of the Act entitled \"An Act to expedite the provision of housing in connection with national defense, and for other purposes\", approved October 14, 1940, as amended, is hereby amended to read as follows \"SEC. 313. Except as otherwise provided in this Act, the Adminis- trator shall, as promptly as may be practicable and in the public interest, remove (by demolition or otherwise) all housing under his 64 STAT.] 81ST CONG., 2n SESS .-CH . 94-APR. 20, 1950 73 jurisdiction which is of a temporary character, as determined by him, and constructed under the provisions of this Act, Public Law 781, 54 Stat. 872 ; 55 Stat . Seventy-sixth Congress, and Public Laws 9, 73, 353, Seventy-seventh 14 ,1 9 7,8 0 C. ° 1552 ; Sup . III, ° 1524 Congress. Such removal shall, in any event, be accomplished not later ' note note . than December 31,1952 or by such later date as may be required because r7cJ ra . Ante, p . 64 . of extensions of time in accordance with section 604 hereof, with the exception only of such housing as the Administrator, after consulta- tion with local communities, finds is still urgently needed because of a particularly acute housing shortage in the area : Provided, That all such exceptions shall be reexamined annually by the Administrator and that all such exceptions and reexaminations shall be reported to the Congress . Notwithstanding any other provisions of law except provisions of law hereafter enacted expressly in limitation hereof, no Federal statute, or regulation thereunder, shall prohibit or restrict any action or proceeding to recover possession of any housing accommoda- tions for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this section or section 604 of this Act .\" SEC . 203 . Section 2 of Public Law 385, Seventy-ninth Congress, is 60 Star. 2os . hereby repealed. SEC . 204. The Act entitled \"An Act to expedite the provision of housing in connection with national defense, and for other purposes\", approved October 14, 1940, as amended, is hereby amended by striking 42 S u t SI C . ch . 9 out the words \"National Housing Administrator\" and \"National Hous- note; °° 1521 1.1 seq . ing Agency\" wherever they appear in said Act and inserting in lieu Ante, p. 59 . thereof the words \"Housing and Home Finance Administrator\" and \"Housing and Home Finance Agency\", respectively . SEC . 205 . (a) Section 2 (d) of the Farmers' Home Administration 7 U. S..'C ..,, sup . IH, Act of 1946, as amended ; section 43 (f) of the Bankhead-Jones Farm °10 1not1.068 Tenant Act, as amended ; and Public Law 298, approved July 31 19471 7 61 U . S . . C . ° 1017 (1 as amended, are repealed effective as of the date of the transfer of the 7 U. St C 4Sup. III, ° 5017 note . property and funds authorized hereunder . Stat . 894. 42 U . S . C . ° 14122 (b) The United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended, is hereby amended by adding the following new subsection (f) to section 12 : Trtcer of labor \"(f) There is hereby transferred to the Authority, effective not camps, later than sixty days after the effective date of the Housing Act of 1950, all right, title, and interest, including contractual rights and reversion- ary interests, held by the Federal Government in and with respect to all labor supply centers, labor homes, labor camps, and facilities held in connection therewith and heretofore administered by the Secretary of Agriculture, for use as low-rent housing projects for families and persons of low income . Such projects when so transferred shall (not- withstanding any other provision of law) be low-rent housing projects subject to the provisions of this Act, except as otherwise provided in this subsection . Such projects shall be operated for the principal purpose of housing persons engaged in agricultural work, and pref- erence for occupancy in such projects shall be given to agricultural workers and their families ; the rents in such projects shall not be higher than the rents which such tenants can afford ; and the provi- sions of the second, third, and fourth sentences of subsection 2 (1) of 42 u S . 429 C . , Sup . III, this Act shall not be applicable to such projects . The Authority is ° 1402 (1) . authorized to enter into contracts for disposal of said projects by any of the methods provided in this Act, including disposal of any such project to a public housing agency for a consideration consisting of the payment by the public housing agency to the Authority during a term of not less than twenty years of all income therefrom after deduc- tion of the amounts necessary for (i) reasonable and proper costs of management, operation, maintenance, and improvement of such proj- ect ; (ii) payments in lieu of taxes not in excess of 10 per centum of shelter rents ; (iii) establishment and maintenance of reasonable and Is PUBLIC LAWS-CH . 94-APR . 20, 1950 74 Appropriations au- thorized. Transfer of funds . 61 Stat. 109 . 50 Stat . 888 . 42 U. S . 0. °° 1401- 1430; Sup . III, ° 1401 et seq . Ante, [64 STAT. proper reserves ; and (iv) the payment of currently maturing install- ments of principal and interest on any indebtedness incurred in con- nection with such project by the public housing agency with the approval of the Authority . Pending sale or lease of said projects to public housing agencies, the Authority may continue present leases and permits, or may enter into new leases with public bodies or non- profit organizations for the operation of such projects . Pending sale of such projects the Authority may make any necessary improvements thereto and may pay any deficits incurred in their improvement and administration out of any of the funds available to it under this Act . Appropriations to reimburse the Authority for any amounts expended pursuant to this subsection, in excess of the funds transferred with such projects, are hereby authorized .\" (c) All unexpended receipts (notwithstanding any limitations in the second proviso of title I of Public Law 76, Eightieth Congress, under the heading of \"Farm Labor Supply Program\") derived from the sales of labor supply centers, labor homes, labor camps, and facili- ties, and all other unexpended balances of funds available for the maintenance, operation, and liquidation of the properties transferred hereunder and for administrative expenses in connection therewith shall be transferred, upon the transfer of such properties, to the Public Housing Administration to be available, until expended, in accordance with the provisions of the United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended . p . 73. TITLE III-AMENDMENTS OF SERVICEMEN'S READJUSTMENT ACT OF 1944 58 Stat . 284 . 38 U . S . C . °° 693- 697g ; Sup. III, ° 693 et seq . Post, p . 214 . 58 Stat . 291 . 38 U. S . 0 . ° 694 (a) . 58 Stat . 291 . 38 U. S . C . ° 694 (c) . 69 Stat . 627 . 38 U . S . C ., Sup . III, ° 694 (b) . 59 Stat . 627 . 38 U . S. C . ° 694 (d) . SEC . 301 . The Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944, as amended, is amended- (a) By inserting after the first sentence of section 500 (a) the following new sentence : \"The unremarried widow of any person who met the service requirements for benefits under this title and who died, either in service or after separation from service under conditions other than dishonorable, as a result of injury or disease incurred in or aggra- vated by such service in line of duty (other than any such widow who by reason of her own service is eligible for the benefits of this title), shall also be eligible for the benefits of this title ; and the term `veteran' as used in this title shall include any such unremarried widow .\" ; and by adding the following new sentence at the end of section 500 (a) : \"In computing the aggregate amount of guaranty or insurance entitlement available to a veteran under this title, the Administrator may in his discretion exclude the initial use of the guaranty or insurance entitle- ment used for any loan with respect to which the security (1) has been taken (by condemnation or otherwise) by the United States, any State, or a local government agency for public use, or (2) has been destroyed by fire or other natural hazard, or 3) has been disposed of because of other compelling reasons devoid of fault on the part of the veteran : Provided, That any amount paid by the Administrator under section 500 (c) of this part shall be deducted from the amount payable on the succeeding loan under that section.\" (b) By striking out \"twenty-five years\" in the second proviso of section 500 (b) and inserting in lieu thereof \"thirty years\" . (c) By amending the first sentence of section 500 (d) to read as follows : \"Loans guaranteed hereunder may be made (1) by any Fed- eral land bank, national bank, State bank, private bank, building and loan association, insurance company, credit union, or mortgage and loan company, that is subject to examination and supervision by an A 64 STAT .] 75 81ST CONG., 2u SESS .--CH. 94-APR . 20, 1950 agency of the United States or of any State or Territory, including the District of Columbia, or (2) by any State .\" (d) By inserting\" (a)\" after \"SEC . 501.\" and before the word \"Any\", and by inserting at the end of section 501 the following new subsection \"(b) Any loan made under this title to a veteran who has not pre- viously availed himself of its benefits the proceeds of which loan are to be used for purchasing residential property or constructing a dwelling to be occupied as his home may, notwithstanding the provi- sions of subsection (a) of section 500 of this title relating to the per- centage or aggregate amount of loan to be guaranteed, be guaranteed, if otherwise made pursuant to the provisions of this title, in an amount not exceeding sixty per centum of the loan : Provided, That the amount of any such guaranty shall not exceed $7,500, nor shall the gratuity payable under subsection (c) of section 500 of this title exceed that which is payable on loans guaranteed in accordance with the maxima provided for in subsection (a) of section 500 of this title .\" (e) By inserting \" (a) \" after \"SEC. 502.\", and by inserting at the end of section 502 the following new subsection \"(b) For the purpose of encouraging the construction and improve- ment of farm housing the Administrator is authorized to guarantee a loan for the construction or improvement of a farmhouse which loan is secured by a first lien on a portion of the farm suitable in size and loca- tion as an independent home site, and to permit payment out of the proceeds of such loan any sum required to obtain the release of such site from existing indebtedness : Provided, That the Administrator may, in his discretion, except any loan for the construction or improvement of a farmhouse from the first lien requirement imposed by subsection 500 (b) of this title .\" (f) By redesignating section 504 as section 504 (a) and by adding to that section a new subsection (b) reading \"(b) No loan for the purchase or construction of residential prop- erty on which construction is begun subsequent to sixty days after the date of enactment of the Housing Act of 1950, shall be financed through the assistance of the provisions of this title unless the property con- forms to minimum construction requirements prescribed by the Administrator.\" (g) By striking out all of subsection (a) of section 505 and by redes- ignating subsection (b) of said section 505 as \"SEC. 505 .\" : Provided, That this subsection shall become effective December 31, 1950, or at such earlier time as the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs shall deter- mine, taking into consideration the interests of veterans and existing plans, of both veterans and the home building industry, for the con- struction of homes : And provided further, That this subsection shall not affect any guarantee made, or for which a certificate of commitment has been issued by said Administrator, under section 505 (a) of the Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944, as amended, prior to the effective date of this subsection . (h) By the addition of two new sections reading as follows \" SUPPLEMENTAL DIRECT LOANS TO VETERANS \"SEC . 512 . (a) Upon application by a veteran eligible for the bene- fits of this title who has not previously availed himself of his guaranty entitlement, the Administrator is authorized and directed to make, or enter into a commitment to make, the veteran a loan to finance the pur- chase or construction of a dwelling to be owned and occupied by him as a home, or to finance the construction or improvement of a f farm- house, if (1) the Administrator has found, after the effective date of 58 Stat . 292 ; 59 Stat . 628 . 38 U. S. C . ° 694a. Loans to veterans. 58 Stat. 291 . 38 U. S . C . ° 694 (a) . Ante, p . 74 . 58 Stat. 291. 38 U. S. C . ° 694 (c). 58 Stat. 292 . 38 U. S . C . ° 694b. Loans for farm- houses. Ante, p . 74. 58 Stat . 293 . 38 U. S . C . ° 6944 . Restriction on loans . 58 Stat . 293 . 38 U. S. C. ° 694e. Effective date. 76 PUBLIC LAWS-CH. 94-APR. 20, 1950 Ante. P. 75. 50 Stat . 522 ; 63 Stat . 413. 7 U. S . C . °° looo- 10o5d, 1007, 1008-1029 ; Sup. III, ° 1001 et seq . ; 42 U. S . C ., Sup . III, 1441 note. Ante, pp. 73, 48, 51, 57, 59. Ante, p . 74. 58 Stat.291 . 38 U . S . C . ° 694 (c). Ante, p. 74, Effective date . Availability funds. Ante, p . 75 . of [64 STAT . this section, that in the area in which the dwelling or farmhouse is located or is to be constructed private capital is not available for the financing of the purchase or construction of dwellings, or the construc- tion or improvement of farmhouses, as the case may be, by veterans under this title, and (2) the veteran shows to the satisfaction of the Administrator- \"(A) that he is a satisfactory credit risk, \" B) that the monthly payments to be required under the pro- posed loan bear a proper relation to the veteran's present and anticipated income and expenses, \"(C) that he is unable to obtain from private lending sources in such area at an interest rate not in excess of 4 per centum per annum a loan for such purpose for which he is qualified under section 501 or section 502 of this title, and \"(D) that he is unable to obtain a loan for such purpose from the Secretary of Agriculture under the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant Act, as amended, or the Housing Act of 1949 . \"(b) Loans made under this section shall bear interest at the rate of 4 per centum per annum and shall be subject to such requirements or limitations prescribed for loans guaranteed under this title as may be applicable : Provided, That- \"(A) the original principal amount of any such loan shall not exceed $10,000 ; \"(B) the guaranty entitlement of the veteran shall be charged with the same amount that would be deducted if the loan had been guaranteed to the maxima permitted under section 500 (a) of this title ; \"(C) the amount of loans made under this section shall not exceed $150,000,000, and \"(D) the authority to make loans under this section shall expire June 30, 1951. \"(c) In connection with any loan under this section, the Adminis- trator is authorized to make advances in cash to pay the taxes and assessments on the real estate, to provide for the purpose of making repairs, alterations, and improvements, and to meet the incidental expenses of the transaction, and shall credit to the principal of the loan an amount equal to that which would have been payable under section 500 (c) of this title had the loan been made by a private institu- tion. \"(d) The Administrator is authorized to sell, and shall offer for sale, to any private lending institution evidencing ability to service loans, any loan made under this section at a price not less than par ; that is, the unpaid balance plus accrued interest, and may guarantee any loan thus sold subject to the same conditions, terms, and limitations which would be applicable were the purchaser entitled to an automatic guaranty under section 500 (a) of this title. \"(e) This section shall take effect ninety days after the date of enactment of the Housing Act of 1950 . \"SEC . 513 . (a) For the purposes of section 512 of this title, the Secretary of the Treasury is hereby authorized and directed to make available to the Administrator such sums, not in excess of $150,000,000, as the Administrator shall request from time to time except that no sums may be made available after June 30, 1951 . After the last day on which the Administrator may make loans under that section, he shall cause to be deposited with the Treasurer of the United States, to the credit of miscellaneous receipts, that part of all sums in the special deposit account referred to in subsection (c) of this section, and all moneys received thereafter, representing unexpended advances or the repayment or recovery of the principal of loans made pursuant 64 STAT.] 77 81sT CONG ., 2n SESS .-CH. 94-APR. 20, 1950 to section 512 of this title . Interest collected by the Administrator on loans made under section 512 in excess of the amount payable by him to the Treasurer of the United States under subsection (b) of this section, together with any miscellaneous income or credits, shall con- stitute a reserve for payment of losses, if any, and expenses incurred in the liquidation of said obligations . The Administrator shall have power to invest such reserves, or any unexpended part thereof, from time to time in obligations of the Government of the United States . \"(b) On advances by the Secretary of the Treasury under subsec- tion (a) of this section, less those amounts deposited in miscellaneous receipts under subsections (a) and (c) hereof the Administrator shall pay semiannually to the Treasurer of the United States interest at the rate or rates determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, taking into consideration the current average rate on outstanding marketable obli- gations of the United States as of the last day of the month preceding the advance. \"(c) In order to make available the sums payable under subsection (a) of this section and to effectuate the purposes and functions author- ized in section 512 of this title, the Secretary of the Treasury is hereby authorized to use, as a public debt transaction, the proceeds of the sale of any securities issued under the Second Liberty Bond Act as now in force or as hereafter amended, and the purposes for which securities may be issued under the Second Liberty Bond Act as now in force or as hereafter amended, are hereby extended to include such purposes . Such sums, together with all receipts hereunder, shall be deposited with the Treasurer of the United States, in a special deposit account, and shall be available, respectively, for disbursement for the purposes of section 512 of this title . Except as otherwise provided in subsection (a) of this section, the Administrator shall from time to time cause to be deposited into the Treasury of the United States, to the credit of miscellaneous receipts, such of the funds in said account as in his judgment are not needed for the purposes for which they were provided, including the proceeds of the sale of any loans, and not later than June 30, 1952, he shall cause to be so deposited all sums in said account and all moneys received thereafter in repayment of outstand- ing obligations, or otherwise, except so much thereof as he may deter- mine to be necessary for purposes of liquidation . Without regard to any other provisions of this title, said Administrator shall have authority to take or cause to be taken such action as in his judgment may be necessary or appropriate for or in connection with the custody, management, protection, and realization or sale of such investments, to determine his necessary expenses and expenditures, and the manner in which the same shall be incurred, allowed and paid, to make such rules, regulations, and orders as he may deem necessary or appropriate for the carrying out of the functions hereby or hereunder authorized and, except as otherwise expressly provided in this title, to employ, utilize, compensate, and delegate any of his functions hereunder to, such persons and such corporate or other agencies, including agencies of the United States, as he may designate .\" TITLE IV-HOUSING FOR EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS FEDERAL LOANS SEC. 401 . (a) To assist educational institutions in providing housing for their students and faculties the Administrator may make loans of funds to such institutions for the construction of such housing : Pro- vided, That no such loan shall be made unless the educational institu- tion shows that it is unable to secure the necessary funds for such Ante, p. 75 . Availability funds. of Ante, p . 75. 40 Stat . 288 . 31 U . S. C . ° 774 (2) ; Sup . III, ° 771 . 78 Funds for loans. Issuance of notes, etc . 40 Stat . 288 . 31 U . S . C . ° 774 (2) ; Sup . III, ° 771 . Appropriation au- thorized . PUBLIC LAWS-CH . 94-APR. 20, 1950 [64 STAT, housing from other sources upon terms and conditions generally com- parable to the terms and conditions applicable to loans under this title And provided further, That no such loan shall be made unless the Administrator finds that the housing will be undertaken in such a manner that economy will be promoted in its construction, and that it will not be of elaborate or extravagant design or materials. Any educational institution which, prior to the date of enactment of this Act, has contracted for housing may, in connection therewith, receive loans authorized under this title, as the Administrator may determine Provided further, That no such loan shall be made for any housing, the construction of which was begun prior to the effective date of this Act. A loan to an educational institution may be in an amount not exceeding the total development cost, as determined by the Adminis- trator, of the housing ; shall bear interest at the annual rate of interest (or, if there shall be two or more such rates of interest, the highest thereof) specified in the most recently issued bonds of the Federal Government having maturity of ten years or more, determined at the date the contract for the loan is made, plus one-fourth of 1 per centum per annum ; and shall be secured in such manner and be repaid within such period, not exceeding forty years, as may be determined by the Administrator. (b) To obtain funds for loans under this title, the Administrator may issue and have outstanding at any one time notes and obligations for purchase by the Secretary of the Treasury in an amount not to exceed $300,000,000 . (c) Notes or other obligations issued by the Administrator under this title shall be in such forms and denominations, have such maturi- ties, and be subject to such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by the Administrator, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury . Such notes or other obligations shall bear interest at a rate determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, taking into consideration the current average rate on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States as of the last day of the month preceding the issuance of such notes or other obligations . The Secretary of the Treasury is author- ized and directed to purchase any notes and other obligations of the Administrator issued under this title and for such purpose is author- ized to use as a public debt transaction the proceeds from the sale of any securities issued under the Second Liberty Bond Act, as amended, and the purposes for which securities may be issued under such Act, as amended, are extended to include any purchases of such notes and other obligations. The Secretary of the Treasury may at any time sell any of the notes or other obligations acquired by him under this section. All redemptions, purchases, and sales by the Secretary of the Treasury of such notes or other obligations shall be treated as public debt transactions of the United States . (d) There are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Adminis- trator such sums as may be necessary, together with loan principal and interest payments made by educational institutions assisted here- under, for payments on notes or other obligations issued by the Administrator under this section . GENERAL PROVISIONS Budget program . 59 Stat . 597 . 31 U. S. C . §° 841- 869 ; Sup. III, § 845 et seq . Post, p. 834. SEC . 402. (a) In the performance of, and with respect to, the func- tions, powers, and duties vested in him by this title, the Administrator, notwithstanding the provisions of any other law, shall- (1) prepare annually and submit a budget program as provided for wholly owned Government corporations by the Government Corporation Control Act, as amended ; and 64 STAT.] 79 81sT CONG ., 2D SESS.--CH. 94-APR. 20, 1950 (2) maintain an integral set of accounts which shall be audited annually by the General Accounting Office in accordance with the principles and procedures applicable to commercial transactions as provided by the Government Corporation Control Act, as amended, and no other audit shall be required : Provided, That such financial transactions of the Administrator as the making of loans and vouchers approved by the Administrator in connec- tion with such financial transactions shall be final and conclusive upon all officers of the Government . (b) Funds made available to the Administrator pursuant to the provisions of this title shall be deposited in a checking account or accounts with the Treasurer of the United States . Receipts and assets obtained or held by the Administrator in connection with the per- formance of his functions under this title, and all funds available for carrying out the functions of the Administrator under this title (in- cluding appropriations therefor, which are hereby authorized), shall be available, in such amounts as may from year to year be authorized by the Congress, for the administrative expenses of the Administrator in connection with the performance of such functions . (c) In the performance of, and with respect to, the functions, powers, and duties vested in him by this title, the Administrator, not- withstanding the provisions of any other law, may- (1) prescribe such rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this title ; (2) consult with and secure the advice and recommendations of the Office of Education in the Federal Security Agency ; (3) sue and be sued ; (4 foreclose on any property or commence any action to pro- tect or enforce any right conferred upon him by any law, contract, or other agreement, and bid for and purchase at any foreclosure or any other sale any property in connection with which he has made a loan pursuant to this title . In the event of any such acqui- sition, the Administrator may, notwithstanding any other pro- vision of law relating to the acquisition, handling, or disposal of real property by the United States, complete, administer, remodel and convert, dispose of, lease and otherwise deal with, such prop- erty : Provided, That any such acquisition of real property shall not deprive any State or political subdivision thereof of its civil or criminal jurisdiction in and over such property or impair the civil rights under the State or local laws of the inhabitants on such property ; (5) enter into agreements to pay annual sums in lieu of taxes to any State or local taxing authority with respect to any real property so acquired or owned ; (6) sell or exchange at public or private sale, or lease, real or personal property, and sell or exchange any securities or obliga- tions, upon such terms as he may fix ; (7) obtain insurance against loss in connection with property and other assets held ; (8) subject to the specific limitations in this title, consent to the modification, with respect to rate of interest, time of payment of any installment of principal or interest, security, or any other term of any contract or agreement to which he is a party or which has been transferred to him pursuant to this title ; and (9) include in any contract or instrument made pursuant to this title such other covenants, conditions, or provisions as he may deem necessary to assure that the purposes of this title will be achieved. Maintenance of ac counts. 59 Stat. 597 . 31 U. S. 0 . °° 841- 869 ; Sup. III, ° 846 et seq . Post, p. 834. Deposit of funds. Funds for adminis- trative expenses . Functions, powers, duties of Administra- tor. 80 4115 . S. C ., Sup . III, is . PUBLIC LAWS-CH . 91 APR. 20, 1950 [64 STAT . (d) Section 3709 of the Revised Statutes shall not apply to any contract for services or supplies on account of any property acquired pursuant to this title if the amount of such contract does not exceed 1,000. APPORTIONMENT 403 . Not more than 10 per centum of the funds provided for in this title in the form of loans shall be made available to educational institutions within any one State . SEC . DEFINITIONS 104 . For the purposes of this title, the following terms shall have the meanings, respectively, ascribed to them below (a) \"Housing\" means (1) new structures suitable for dwelling use, including single-room dormitories and apartments, and (2) dwelling facilities provided by rehabilitation, alteration, conversion, or improvement of existing structures which are otherwise inadequate for the proposed dwelling use. (b) \"Educational institution\" means educational institutions of higher learning, including (a) any public educational institution or (b) any private educational institution, no part of the net earnings of which shall inure to the benefit of any private shareholder or indi- vidual . (c) \"Development cost\" means costs of the construction of the housing and the land on which it is located, including necessary site improvements to permit its use for housing purposes. (d) \"Faculties' means members of the faculty and their families . (e) \"State\" shall include the several States, the District of Colum- bia, and the Territories and possessions of the United States . (f) \"Administrator\" means the Housing and Home Finance Admin- istrator. (g) \"Construction\" means erection of new structures, or rehabilita- tion, alteration, conversion, or improvement of existing structures . SEC. TITLE V-MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 47 Stat. 731 ; 55 Stat. 62. 12 U . S . C . ° 1430; Sup. 111, ° 1430. 48 Stat . 1246. 12 U . S. C . ° 1701 and note; Sup . III, ° 1701c et seq. Ante, pp . 48, 51-54, 57-59, 74; post, pp . 258, 259, 894 ; infra . 63 Stat . 906 . 12 U . S . C . ° 371 ; Sup . III, ° 371 . 62 Stat . 1283 . 12 U. S. C ., Sup . III, ° 1701c(a) . SEC. 501 . Section 10 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act, as amended, is hereby amended- (1) by striking out of subsection (a) (1) the words \"titles II and VI\" and inserting in lieu thereof the words \"title I, title II, title VI, or title VIII\" ; and (2) by inserting the following after the word \"maturity,\" in the first sentence of subsection (b) : \"unless such home mortgage is insured under the National Housing Act, as amended, or insured or guaranteed under the Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944, as amended,\". SEC. 502. Section 24 of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, is hereby amended by striking out of the third sentence \"or title VIII\" and inserting in lieu thereof the words \"title VIII, or section 8 of title I\". SEC. 503 . The Housing Act of 1948 is hereby amended- (1) by amending the third sentence of section 502 (a) thereof to read as follows \"The Administrator, without in any way relieving himself from final responsibility, may delegate any of his functions and powers to such officers, agents, or employees as he may designate, may authorize such successive redelegations of such functions and powers, as he may deem desirable, and may make such rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out his functions, powers, and duties .\" ; 64 STAT.] 81 81ST CONG., 2D SESS .-CH . 94-APR . 20, 1950 (2) by amending subsection 502 (c) (2) by inserting the words \"or pay\" after the word \"reimburse\" in said subsection . SEC. 504 . With respect to housing built or sold with assistance pro- vided under the National Housing Act, as amended, or title III of the Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944, as amended, the Federal Housing Commissioner and the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs, respectively, are hereby specifically authorized and directed to issue such regulations, applicable uniformly to all classes of mortgagees, as they determine desirable for the purpose of limiting the charges and fees imposed upon the builder, veteran, or other purchaser in connec- tion with the financing of the construction or sale of such housing, whether or not such charges were or are imposed in connection with the financing assisted by the Federal Government, and no loan shall be insured or guaranteed under such Acts unless the mortgagee certi- fies that it has not imposed upon the builder, veteran, or other pur- chaser any charges or fees in connection with the financing of the construction or sale of such housing in excess of the charges or fees permitted under such regulations for such purposes as are applicable to the housing involved . SEC . 505 . The right to redeem provided for by title 28, United States Code, section 2410 (c), shall not arise in any case in which the subor- dinate lien or interest of the United States derives from the issuance of insurance under the National Housing Act, as amended, or the issuance of guaranties or insurance under the Servicemen's Readjust- ment Act of 1944, as amended. SEC. 506 . Section 4 (c) of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation Act, as amended, is hereby amended by striking out \"$3,500,000,000\" and inserting in lieu thereof \"$3,750,000,000\" . SEC . 507 . Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law, except provisions of law hereafter enacted expressly in limitation hereof, receipts of the National Capital Housing Authority from leases, sales, or other sources under title I of the District of Columbia Alley Dwell- ing Act are and shall remain available to the Authority for the pur- poses of said title I, subject to approval by the Public Housing Admin- istration of budgets for maintenance and operation of properties administered under title I in the same manner as budgets are approved by said Administration with respect to maintenance and operation of projects under title II of said Act. SEC . 508 . It is the intent of Congress that no sale of a dwelling on which a mortgage is insured under the National Housing Act, as amended, shall be financed, while such mortgage is so insured, at an interest rate higher than that prescribed by the Federal Housing Com- missioner . It is the further intent of Congress that no such sale shall be made, while such mortgage is so insured, on terms less favorable to the purchaser as to amortization, retirement, foreclosure, or forfeiture than those contained in such mortgage . SEC. 509. Insofar as the provisions of any other law are inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, the provisions of this Act shall be con- trolling : Provided, That nothing contained in this Act shall affect the authority of the Housing and Home Finance Administrator under title II of Public Law 266, Eighty-first Congress . SEC. 510 . Except as may be otherwise expressly provided in this Act, all powers and authorities conferred by this Act shall be cumulative and additional to and not in derogation of any powers and authorities otherwise existing . Notwithstanding any other evidences of the inten- tion of Congress, it is hereby declared to be the controlling intent of Congress that if any provisions of this Act, or the application thereof to any persons or circumstances, shall be adjudged by any court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect, 98352 ˘-51-PT . 1-6 62 Stat . 1284 . 12 U . S. C ., Sup . III, ° 1701c (b) . Regulations . 48 Stat . 1246 ; 58 Stat . 291 . 12U . S . C . ° 1701 and note ; Sup. III, ° 1701c et seq . ; 38 U . S . C . °° 694-694e, 694g-6941 ; Sup. III, ° 694 et seq. Ante, pp. 48, 51-54, 57-59, 74, 80 ; post, pp . 97, 258, 259, 894 ; supra . 62 Stat. 973 . 28 U . S. C ., Sup. III, ° 2410 (c) . 48 Stat . 1246 . 12 U . S . C . ° 1701 and note; Sup. III, ° 1701e et seq. Ante, pp. 48, 51-54, 57-59, 74, 80 . post, pp. 97, 258, 259, 894 ; supra . 63 Stat. 906. 15 U . S . C ., Sup . III, ° 604 (C) . Availability of funds . 52 Stat. 1186. 1) . C . Code °° 5-103 to 5-111 ; Sup . VII, °5- 105a et seq . 52 Stat .1189. D . C . Code °° 5-112 to 5-116. 48 Stat . 1246 . 12 U . S. C . ° 1701 and note . Sup. III, ° 1701c et seq . tote, pp . 48, 51-54, .57-59, 80. post, pp . 258, 259, 894; supra . Controlling provi- sions. 63 Stat.657. 42 U . S . C ., Sup . III, °~ 1431, 1576. Cumulative powers. Separability. 82 PUBLIC LAWS-CHS . 94-97-APR . 20, 24, 1950 (64 STAT. impair, or invalidate the remainder of this Act or its applications to other persons and circumstances, but shall be confined in its operation to the provisions of this Act, or the application thereof to the persons and circumstances, directly involved in the controversy in which such judgment shall have been rendered . Approved April 20, 1950 . [CHAPTER 951 April 24, 1950 [S. J. Res. 1661 [Public Law 476] Posthumous award to crew of U . S . Navy Privateer. JOINT RESOLUTION To authorize the award posthumously of an appropriate decoration to members of the crew of the United States Navy Privateer who lost their lives in or over the Baltic Sea on April 8, 1950, while in the performance of duty. Resolved by the Senate and House o f Representatives o f the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Navy is authorized and directed to award posthumously to the officers and crew of the United States Navy Privateer who lost their lives while on a flight between Wiesbaden, Germany, and Copenhagen, Denmark, in or over the Baltic Sea on April 8,1950, an appropriate decoration in recognition of their outstanding and heroic services in the performance of duty. SEC . 2. The Congress hereby tenders its condolences to the families of the deceased and expresses its gratitude for their gallantry and devotion to duty. SEC . 3 . The Secretary of the Navy is authorized and directed to transmit a copy of this resolution to the family of each of the deceased . Approved April 24, 1950 . [CHAPTER 961 April 24, 1950 [H . J . Res . 4541 [Public Law 477] Clerks of Members of House . Continuance on pay rolls. 49 Stat. 679. 2 U . S. C. ° 92b. 44 Stat . ° 1148 . 2 U . S . C . ° 92a JOINT RESOLUTION Relating to the continuance on the pay rolls of certain employees in cases of death or resignation of Members of the House of Representatives, Delegates, and Resident Commissioners. Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the first section of the joint resolution entitled `Joint resolution relating to the continuance on the pay rolls of certain employees in cases of death or resignation of Members of the House of Representatives, Delegates, and Resident Commissioners\", approved August 21, 1935, is hereby amended to read as follows : \"That notwithstanding the provisions of the third paragraph under the heading `Clerical assistance to Senators' of sec- tion 1 of the Legislative Appropriation Act for the fiscal year ending June 80, 1928 (U. S . C ., Supp. V, title 2, sec . 92a), in case of the death or resignation of a Member of the House during his term of office, the clerical assistants designated by him and borne upon the clerk hire pay rolls of the House of Representatives on the date of such death or resignation shall be continued upon such pay rolls at their respective salaries until the successor to such Member of the House is elected to fill the vacancy .\" Approved April 24, 1950 . [CHAPTER 971 April 24, 1950 [H. R . 5839] [Public Law 478] AN ACT To facilitate and simplify the work of the Forest Service, and for other purposes . Forest Service. Be it enacted by the Senate and House o f Representatives o f the United States of America in Congress assembled, That, notwith-"
