"x"
"1" "70 S T A T . ] PUBLIC LAW 511-MAY 9, 1966 Public Law 511 133 CHAPTER 240 -^N A C T To define bank holding companies, control their future expansion, and require divestment of their nonbanking interests. May 9,1956 [H. R. 6227] Be it enacted hi/ the Senate and House of RepresentativeH of the United states of Anienca in Congress assembled. That this Act may c o ^ a n y ^/SA*®? be cited as the \"Bank Holding Company Act of 1956\". i9S6. DEFINITIONS SEC. 2 (a) '\"Bank holding company\"' means any company (1) which directly or indirectly OAvns, controls, or holds with power to vote, 25 per centum or more of the voting shares of each of two or more banks or of a com])any which is or becomes a bank holding com- ])any by virtue of tliis Act, or (2) which controls in any manner the election of a majority of the directors of each of two or more banks, or (3) for the benefit of whose shareholders or members 25 per centum or more of the voting shares of each of tw'o or more banks or a baiik holding company is held by trustees; and for the purposes of this Act, any successor to any such company shall be deemed to be a baiik holding company from the date as of w^liich such predecessor company became a bank holding company. Xotwdthstanding the foregoing (A) no bank shall be a bank holding company by virtue of its owner- ship or control of shares in a fiduciary capacity, except where such shares are held for the benefit of the shareholders of such bank, (B) no company shall be a bank holding company Avhich is registered under the Investment Company Act of 1910, and Avas so registered 15 usc*8(f╗-*5i. prior to May 15, 1955 (or which is affiliated with any such company in such manner as to constitute an affiliated company within the mean- ing of such Act), unless such company (or such affiliated company), as the case may be, directly owns 25 per centum or more of the voting shares of each of two or more banks, (C) no company shall be a bank holding company by virtue of its ow^nership or control of shares acquired by it in connection with its underwriting of securities and which are held only for such period of time as Avill permit the sale thereof upon a reasonable basis, (D) no company formed for the sole purpose of participating in a proxy solicitation shall be a bank holding company by virtue of its control of voting rights of shares acquired in the course of such solicitation, and ( E ) no company shall be a bank holding company if at least 80 per centum of its total assets are com- jjosed of holdings in the field of agriculture. (b) \"Company\" means any corporation, business trust, association, or similar organization, but shall not include (1) any corporation the majority of the shares of which are owned by the United States or by any State, or (2) any corporation or community chest, fund, or foundation, organized and operated exclusively for religious, charita- ble, or educational purposes, no part of the net earnings of which inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual, and no substantial part of the activities of which is carrying on propa- ganda, or otherwise attempting to influence legislation, or (3) any partnership. (c) \"Bank\" means any national banking association or any State bank, savings bank, or trust company, but shall not include any organ- ization operating under section 25 (a) of the Federal Reserve Act, 12 usc'6^nf6i2. or any organization which does not do business within the United States. \"State member bank\" means any State bank which is a mem- bal^\"*** member ber of the Federal Reserve System. \"District bank\" means any State \"District bank\". 134 PUBLIC LAW 511-MAY 9, 1956 [70 S T A T . bank organized or operating under the Code of Law for the District of Columbia. (d) \"Subsidiary\", with respect to a specified bank holding com- pany, means (1) any company 25 per centum or more of whose voting shares (excluding shares owned by the United States or by any com- pany wholly owned by the United States) is owned or controlled by such bank holding company; or (2) any company the election of a majority of whose directors is controlled in any manner by such bank holding company; or (3) any company 25 per centum or more of whose votmg shares are held by trustees for the benefit of the share- holders or members of such bank holding company. (e) The term \"successor\" shall include any company which acquires directly or indirectly from a bank holding company shares of any bank, when and if the relationship between such company and the bank holding company is such that the transaction effects no substan- tial change in the control of the bank or beneficial ownership of such shares of such bank. The Board may, by regulation, further define the term \"successor\" to the extent necessary to prevent evasion of the purposes of this Act. (f) \"Board\" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. (g) \"Agriculture\", as used in section 2 ( a ) , includes farming in all its branches including fruitgrowing, dairying, the raising of live- stock, bees, fur-bearing animals, or poultry, forestry or lumbering operations, and the production of naval stores, and operations directly related thereto. A C Q U I S I T I O N OF B A N K SHARES OR ASSETS SEC. 3. (a) I t shall be unlawful except with the prior approval of the Board (1) for any action to be taken which results in a company becoming a bank holding company under section 2 (a) of this Act; (2) for any bank holding company to acquire direct or indirect owner- ship or control of any voting shares of any bank if, after such acquisition, such company will directly or indirectly own or control more than 5 per centum of the voting shares of such bank; (3) for any bank holding company or subsidiary thereof, other than a bank, to acquire all or substantially all of the assets of a bank; or (4) for any bank holding company to merge or consolidate with any other bank holding company. Notwithstanding the foregoing this prohibi- tion shall not apply to (A) shares acquired by a bank, (i) in good faith in a fiduciary capacity, except where such shares are held for the benefit of the shareholders of such bank, or (ii) in the regular course of securing or collecting a debt previously contracted in good faith, but any shares acquired after the date of enactment of this Act in securing or collecting any such previously contracted debt shall be disposed of within a period of two years from the date on which they were acquired; or (B) additional shares acquired by a bank holding company in a bank in which such bank holding company owned or controlled a majority of the voting shares prior to such acquisition. (b) Upon receiving from a company any application for approval under this section, the Board shall give notice to the Comptroller of the Currency, if the applicant company or any bank the voting shares or assets of which are sought to be acquired is a national banking association or a District bank, or to the appropriate supervisory authority of the interested State, if the applicant company or any bank the voting shares or assets of which are sought to be acquired is a State bank, and shall allow thirty days within which the views and recommendations of the Comptroller of the Currency or the State 70 S T A T . ] PUBLIC LAW 511-MAY 9, 1956 supervisory authority, as the case may be, may be submitted. If the Comptroller of the Currency or the State supervisory authority so notified by the Board disapproves the application in writing within said thirty days, the Board shall forthwith give written notice of that fact to the applicant. Within three days after giving such notice to the applicant, the Board shall notify in writing the applicant and the disapproving authority of the date for commencement of a hear- ing by it on such application. Any such hearing shall be commenced not less than ten nor more than thirty days after the Board has given written notice to the applicant of the action of the disapproving authority. The length of any such hearing shall be determined by the Board, but it shall afford all interested parties a reasonable oppor- tunity to testify at such hearing. A t the conclusion thereof, the Board shall by order grant or deny the application on the basis of the record made at such hearing. (c) I n determining whether or not to approve any acquisition or merger or consolidation under this section, the Board shall take into consideration the following factors: (1) the financial history and condition of the company or companies and the banks concerned; (2) their prospects; (3) the character of their management; (4) the con- venience, needs, and welfare of the communities and the area con- cerned ; and (5) whether or not the effect of such acquisition or merger or consolidation would be to expand the size or extent of the bank holding company system involved beyond limits consistent with ade- quate and sound banking, the public interest, and the preservation of competition in the field of banking. (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, no appli- cation shall be approved under this section which will permit any bank holding company or any subsidiary thereof to acquire, directly or indirectly, any voting shares of, interest in, or all or substantially all of the assets of any additional bank located outside of the State in which such bank holding company maintains its principal office and place of business or in which it conducts its principal operations unless the acquisition of such shares or assets of a State bank by an out-of- State bank holding company is specifically authorized by the statute laws of the State in which such bank is located, by language to that effect and not merely by implication. I N T E R E S T S I N N O N B A N K I N G ORGANIZATIONS SEC. 4, (a) Except as otherwise provided in this Act, no bank hold- ing company shallŚ (1) after the date of enactment of this Act acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any com- pany which is not a bank, or (2) after two years from the date of enactment of this Act or from the date as of which it becomes a bank holding company, whichever is later, retain direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any company which is not a bank or a bank holding company or engage in any business other than that of banking or of managing or controlling banks or of furnishing services to or performing services for any bank of which it owns or controls 25 per centum or more of the voting shares. The Board is authorized, upon application by a bank holding company, to extend the period referred to in paragraph (2) above from time to time as to such bank holding company for not more than one year at a time if, in its judgment, such an extension would not be detrimental to the public interest, but no such extensions shall extend beyond a date 135 136 PUBLIC LAW 511-MAY 9, 1956 [70 S T A T . five years after the date of enactment of this Act or five years after the date as of which a company becomes a bank holding company, which- ever is later. (b) After two years from the date of enactment of this Act, no certificate evidencing shares of any bank holding company shall bear any statement purporting to represent shares ot any other company except a bank or a bank holding company, nor shall the ownership, sale, or transfer of shares of any bank holding company be conditioned in any manner whatsoever upon the ownership, sale, or transfer of shares of any other company except a bank or a bank holding company, of i^^bmons. '^^^ (c) The prohibitions in this section shall not applyŚ (1) to shares owned or acquired by a bank holding company in any company engaged solely in holding or operating properties used wholly or substantially by any bank with respect to which it is a bank holding company in its operations or acquired for such future use or engaged solely in conducting a safe deposit business, or solely in the business of furnishing services to or performing services for such holding company and banks with respect to which it is a bank holding company, or in liquidating assets acquired from such bank holding company and such banks; (2) to shares acquired by a bank holding company which is a bank, or by any banking subsidiary of a bank holding company, in satisfaction of a debt previously contracted in good faith, but such bank holding company or such subsidiaries shall dispose of such shares within a period of two years from the date on which they were acquired or from the date of enactment of this Act, whichever is later; (3) to shares acquired by a bank holding company from any of its subsidiaries which subsidiary has been requested to dispose of such shares by any Federal or State authority having statutory power to examine such subsidiary, but such bank holding com- pany shall dispose of such shares within a period of two years from the date on which they were acquired or from the date of enactment of this Act, whichever is later; (4) to shares which are held or acquired by a bank holding company which is a bank or by any banking subsidiary of a bank holding company, in good faith in a fiduciary capacity, except where such shares are held for the benefit of the shareholders of such bank holding company or any of its subsidiaries, or to shares which are of the kinds and amounts eligible for investment by National banking associations under the provisions of section 12 use 24. 5j^3g fyf fi^Q Revised Statutes, or to shares lawfully acquired and owned prior to the date of enactment of this Act by a bank which is a bank holding company, or by any of its wholly owned subsidiaries; (5) to shares of any company which are held or acquired by a bank holding company which do not include more than 5 per centum of the outstanding voting securities of such company, and do not have a value greater than 5 per centum of the value of the total assets of the bank holding company, or to the ownership by a bank holding company of shares, securities, or obligations of an investment company which is not a bank holding company and which is not engaged in any business other than investing in securities, which securities do not include more than 5 per centum of the outstanding voting securities of any company and do not include any single asset having a value greater than 5 per centum of the value of the total assets of the bank holding com- pany; 70 S T A T . ] PUBLIC LAW 511-MAY 9, 1956 137 (6) to shares of any company all the activities of which are of a financial, fiduciary, or insurance nature and which the Board after due notice and hearing, and on the basis of the record made at such hearing, by order has determined to be so closely related to the business of banking or of managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto and as to make it unnecessary for the prohibitions of this section to apply in order to carry out the purposes of this Act; (7) to any bank holding company which is a labor, agricultural, or horticultural organization and which is exempt from taxation under section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954; or (8) to shares held or acquired by a bank holding company in any company which is organized under the laws of a foreign country and which is engaged principally in the banking business outside the United States. f 26 l^ilr^lnV!^* u s e 501. ADMINISTRATION SEC. 5. (a) Within one hundred and eighty days after the date of enactment of this Act, or within one hundred and eighty days after becoming a bank holding company, whichever is later, each bank holding company shall register with the Board on forms prescribed by the Board, which shall include such information with respect to the financial condition and operations, management, and intercompany relationships of the bank holding company and its subsidiaries, and related matters, as the Board may deem necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this Act. The Board may, in its discretion, extend the time within which a bank holding company shall register and file the requisite information. (b) The Board is authorized to issue such regulations and orders as may be necessary to enable it to administer and carry out the purposes of this Act and prevent evasions thereof. (c) The Board from time to time may require reports under oath to keep it informed as to whether the provisions of this Act and such regulations and orders issued thereunder liave been complied with; and the Board may make examinations of each bank holding company and each subsidiary thereof, the cost of which shall be assessed against, and paid by, such holding company. The Board shall, as far as pos- sible, use the reports of examinations made by the Comptroller of the Currenc}', the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or the appro- priate State bank supervisory authority for the purposes of this section. (d) Before the expiration of two years following the date of enact- ment of this Act, and each year thereafter in the Board's annual report to the Congress, the Board shall report to the Congress the results of the administration of this Act, stating what, if any, sub- stantial difficulties have been encountered in carrying out the purposes of this Act, and any recommendations as to changes in the law which in the opinion of the Board would be desirable. BORROWING BY B A N K HOLDING COMPANY OR ITS SUBSIDIARIES SEC. 6. (a) From and after the date of enactment of this Act, it shall be unlawful for a bankŚ (1) to invest any of its funds in the capital stock, bonds, deben- tures, or other obligations of a bank holding company of which it is a subsidiary, or of any other subsidiary of such bank holding company; (2) to accept the capital stock, bonds, debentures, or other obli- gations of a bank holding company of which it is a subsidiary or any other subsidiary of such bank holding company, as collateral Report to C o n - gress. 138 PUBLIC LAW 511-MAY 9, 1956 * Ante, p. 136. [TO S T A T . security for advances made to any person or company: Provided^ however^ That any bank may accept such capital stock, bonds, debentures, or other obligations as security for debts previously contracted, but such collateral shall not be held for a period of over two years; (3) to purchase securities, other assets or obligations under repurchase agreement from a bank holding company of which it is a subsidiary or any other subsidiary of such bank holding company; and (4) to make any loan, discount or extension of credit to a bank holding company of which it is a subsidiary or to any other subsidiary of such bank holding company. Non-interest-bearing deposits to the credit of a bank shall not be deemed to be a loan or advance to the bank of deposit, nor shall the giving of immediate credit to a bank upon uncollected items received in the ordinary course of business be deemed to be a loan or advance to the depositing bank. (b) The provisions of this section shall not apply (1) to the capital stock, bonds, debentures, or other obligations of any company described jj^ scctiou 4 (c) (1) of this Act, or (2) to any company whose subsid- iary status has arisen out of a bona fide debt to tlie bank contracted prior to the date of the creation of such status, or (3) to any company whose subsidiary status exists by reason of the ownership or control of voting shares thereof by the bank as executor, administrator, trus- tee, receiver, agent, or depositary, or in any other fiduciary capacity, except where such shares are held for the benefit of all or a majority of the stockholders of such bank. RESERVATION OF RIGHTS TO STATES SEC. 7. The enactment by the Congress of the Bank Holding Com- pany Act of 1956 shall not be construed as preventing any State from exercising such powers and jurisdiction which it now has or may hereafter have with respect to banks, bank holding companies, and subsidiaries thereof. PENALTIES 62 Stat. 750. SEC. 8. Any company which willfully violates any provision of this Act, or any regulation or order issued by the Board pursuant thereto, shall upon conviction be fined not more than $1,000 for each day during which the violation continues. Any individual who will- fully participates in a violation of any provision of this Act shall upon conviction be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than one year, or both. Every officer, director, agent, and em- ployee of a bank holding company shall be subject to the same pen- alties for false entries in any book, report, or statement of such bank holding company as are applicable to officers, directoi^s, agents, and employees of member banks for false entries in any books, reports, or statements of member banks under section 1005 of title 18, United States Code. JUDICIAL R E V I E W SEC. 9. Any party aggrieved by an order of tlie Board under this Act may obtain a review of such order in the United States Court of Appeals within any circuit wherein such party has its principal ])lace of business, or in the Court of Appeals in the District of Colum- bia, by filing in the court, within sixty days after the entry of the Board's order, a petition praying that the order of the Board be set aside. A copy of such petition shall be forthwith served upon the 70 S T A T . ] PUBLIC LAW 51 1 - M A Y 9, 1956 139 Board, and thereupon the Board shall certify and file in the court a transcript of the record made before the Board. Upon the filing of the transcript the court shall have jurisdiction to affirm, set aside, or modify the order of the Board and to require the Board to take such action with regard to the matter under review as the court deems proper. The findings of the Board as to the facts, if supported by substantial evidence, shall be conclusive. AMENDMENTS TO INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF 1954 SEC. 10. (a) Subchapter O of chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue f 1^^1*0 lo^oi- Code of 1954 is amended by adding at the end thereof the following io9i. new p a r t : \"PART VIIIŚDISTRIBUTIONS P U R S U A N T TO BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT OF 1956 \"Sec. 1101. Distributions pursuant to Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. \"Sec. 1102. Special rules. \"Sec. 1103. Definitions. \"SEC. 1101. DISTRIBUTIONS PURSUANT TO BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT OF 1956. \"(a) DISTRIBUTIONS OF CERTAIN NON-B.\NKING PROPERTY,Ś \" ( 1 ) DISTRIBUTIONS or PROHIBITED PROPERTY.ŚIfŚ \" ( A ) a qualified bank holding corporation distributes pro- hibited property (other than stock received in an exchange to which subsection (c) (2) applies)Ś \"(i) to a shareholder (with respect to its stock held by such shareholder), without the surrender by such share- holder of stock in such corporation; or \"(ii) to a shareholder, in exchange for its preferred stock; or \"(iii) to a security holder, in exchange for its secu- rities; and \" ( B ) the Board has, before the distribution, certified that the distribution of such prohibited property is necessary or appropriate to effectuate section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, then no gain to the shareholder or security holder from the receipt of such property shall be recognized. \" ( 2 ) DISTRIBUTIONS OF STOCK AND SECURITIES RECEIVED I N AN EXCHANGE TO WHICH S U B S E C T I O N ( C ) ( 2 ) APPLIES. I f \" ( A ) a qualified bank holding corporation distributesŚ \" ( i ) common stock received in an exchange to which subsection (c) (2) applies to a shareholder (with respect to its stock held by such shareholder), without the sur- render by such shareholder of stock in such corporation; or \"(ii) common stock received in an exchange to which subsection (c) (2) applies to a shareholder, in exchange for its common stock; or \"(iii) preferred stock or common stock received in an exchange to which subsection (c) (2) applies to a share- holder, in exchange for its preferred stock; or \"(iv) securities or preferred or common stock received in an exchange to which subsection (c) (2) applies to a security holder, in exchange for its securities; and \" ( B ) any preferred stock received has substantially the same terms as the preferred stock exchanged, and any securi- Ante, p½ 135* 140 PUBLIC LAW 511-MAY 9, 1956 [70 S T A T . ties received have substantially the same terms as the securities exchanged, then, except as provided in subsection ( f ) , no gain to the share- holder or security holder from the receipt of such stock or such securities or such stock and securities shall be recognized. \"(3) NoN PRO RATA DISTRIBUTIONS.ŚParagraphs (1) and (2) shall apply to a distribution whether or not the distribution is pro rata with respect to all of the shareholders of the distributing qualified bank holding corporation. \"(4) EXCEPTION.ŚThis subsection shall not apply to any dis- tribution by a corporation which has made any distribution pur- suant to subsection (b). \"(5) DISTRIBUTIONS INVOLVING GIFT OR COMPENSATION.Ś \"In the case of a distribution to which paragraph (1) or (2) applies, but whichŚ \"(-^^ results in a gift, see section 2501, and following, or \"(B) has the effect of the payment of compensation, see section 61 (a) (1). 26USC 250░^ ä, ,.__ ^, * 2^\"^^^^* \"(b) CORPORATION CEASING T O B E A B A N K HOLDING COMPANY.Ś \"(1) DISTRIBUTIONS OF PROPERTY WHICH CAUSE A CORPORATION TO BE A BANK HOLDING COMPANY.ŚIfŚ Ante, p. 133. \" ( A ) a qualified bank holding corporation distributes property (other than stock received in an exchange to which subsection (c) (3) applies) Ś \"(i) to a shareholder (with respect to its stock held by such shareholder), Avithout the surrender by such shareholder of stock in such corporation; or \"(ii) to a shareholder, in exchange for its preferred stock; or \"(iii) to a security holder, in exchange for its securi- ties; and \" ( B ) the Board has, before the distribution, certified thatŚ \"(i) such property is all or part of the property by reason of which such corporation controls (within the meaning of section 2 (a) of the Bank Holding Company ^^^.^ ^f 1956) a bank or bank holding company, or such property is part of the property by reason of which such corporation did control a bank or a bank holding com- pany before any property of the same kind was distrib- uted imder this subsection or exchanged under subsection (c) (3) ; and \"(ii) the distribution is necessary or appropriate to effectuate the policies of such Act, then no gain to the shareholder or security holder from the receipt of such property shall be recognized. \" ( 2 ) IDlSTRIBUTIONS OF STOCK AND SECURITIES RECEIVED IN AN EXCHANGE TO WHICH SUBSECTION ( c ) ( 3 ) APPLIES. I f \" ( A ) a qualified bank holding corporation distributesŚ \" ( i ) common stock received m an exchange to which subsection (c) (3) applies to a shareholder (with respect to its stock held by such shareholder), without the sur- render by such shareholder of stock in such corporation; or \"(ii) common stock received in an exchange to which subsection (c) (3) applies to a shareholder, in exchange for its common stock; or 70 S T A T . ] PUBLIC LAW 511-MAY 9, 1956 141 \"(iii) preferred stock or common stock received in an exchange to which subsection (c) (3) applies to a shareholder, in exchange for its preferred stock; or \" (iV) securities or preferred or common stock received in an exchange to which subsection (c) (3) applies to a security holder, in exchange for its securities; and \" ( B ) any preferred stock received has substantially the same terms as the preferred stock exchanged, and any se- curities received have substantially the same terms as the securities exchanged, then, except as provided in subsection ( f ) , no gain to the share- holder or security holder from the receipt of such stock or such securities or such stock and securities shall be recognized. \"(3) Nox PRO RATA DISTRIBUTIONS.ŚParagraphs (1) and (2) shall apply to a distribution whether or not the distribution is pro rata with respect to all of the shareholders of the distributing qualified bank holding corporation. \"(4) EXCEPTION.ŚThis subsection shall not apply to any dis- tribution by a corporation which has made any distribution pur- suant to subsection ( a ) . \"(5) DISTRIBUTIONS INVOLVING GIFT OR COMPENSATION.Ś \"In the case of a distribution to which paragraph (1) or (2) applies, but- whichŚ \"(A) results in a gift, see section 2501, and following, or 26^i<f*2soi* \"(B) has the effect of the payment of compensation, see j~, ^.ä^ f, section 61 (a) (1). ^^ \"^^ ^^' \"(c) PROPERTY ACQUIRED AFTER MAY 15, 1955.Ś \" ( 1 ) I N GENERAL.ŚExcept as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3), subsection (a) or (b) shall not apply toŚ \" ( A ] any property acquired by the distributing corpora- tion alter May 15, 1955, unless (i) gain to such corporation with respect to the receipt of such property was not recog- nized by reason of subsection (a) or ( b ) , or (ii) such prop- erty was received by it in exchange for all of its stock in an exchange to which paragraph (2) or (3) applies, or (iii) such property was acquired b^ the distributing corporation in a transaction in which gain was not recognized under section 305 (a) or section 332, or under section 354 with 354, ,5!*^!^^░*'^^^ 368. respect to a reorganization described in section 368 (a) (1) (E) or ( F ) , o r \" ( B ) any property which was acquired by the distributing corporation in a distribution with respect to stock acquired by such corporation after May 15,1955, unless such stock was acquired by such corporation (i) in a distribution (with respect to stock held by it on May 15, 1955, or with respect to stock in respect of which all previous applications of this clause are satisfied) with respect to which gain to it was not recognized by reason of subsection (a) or ( b ) , or (ii) in exchange for all of its stock in an exchange to which para- graph (2) or (3) applies, or (iii) in a transaction in which gain was not recognized under section 305 (a) or section 332, or under section 354 with respect to a reorganization described in section 368,(a) (1) ( E ) or ( F ) , o r \" ( C ) any property acquired by the distributing corpora- tion in a transaction in which gain was not recognized under section 332, unless such property was acquired from a corpo- ration which, if it had been a qualified bank holding corpora- tion, could have distributed such property under subsection (a) (1) or (b) (1). 142 PUBLIC LAW 511-MAY 9, 1956 \" (2) ^\"*½' P* 135. EXCHANGES INVOLVING PROHIBITED PROPERTY.ŚIfŚ \" ( A ) Any qualified bank holding corporation exchanges (i) property, which, under subsection (a) (1), such corpo- ration could distribute directly to its shareholders or se- curity holders without the recognition of gain to such share- holders or security holders, and other property (except prop- erty described in subsection (b) (1) (B) ( i ) ) , f o r (ii) all of the stock of a second corporation created and availed of solely for the purpose of receiving such property; \" ( B ) immediately after the exchange, the qualified bank holding corporation distributes all of such stock in a manner prescribed in subsection (a) (2) ( A ) ; and \" ( C ) before such exchange, the Board has certified (with respect to the property exchanged which consists of property which, under subsection (a) (1), such corporation could dis- tribute directly to its shareholders or security holders with- out the recognition of gain) that the exchange and distribu- tion are necessary or appropriate to effectuate section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, then paragraph (1) shall not apply with respect to such distribu- tion. \"(3) Ante, p. 133. [70 S T A T . EXCHANGES INVOLVING INTERESTS I N BANKS.ŚIfŚ \" (A) any qualified bank holding corporation exchanges (i) property which, under subsection (b) (1), such corporation could distribute directly to its shareholders or security holders without the recognition of gain to such shareholders or secur- ity holders, and other property (except prohibited property), for (ii) all of the stock of a second corporation created and availed of solely for the purpose of receiving such property; \" ( B ) immediately after the exchange, the qualified bank holding corporation distributes all of such stock in a manner prescribed in subsection (b) (2) ( A ) ; and \" ( C ) before such exchange, the Board has certified (with respect to the property exchanged which consists of property which, under subsection (b) (1), such corporation could distribute directly to its shareholders or security holders without the recognition of gain) thatŚ \" ( i ) such property is all or part of the property by reason of which such corporation controls (within the meaning of section 2 (a) of the Bank Holding Com- pauy Act of 1956) a bank or bank holding company, or such property is part of the property by reason of which such corporation did control a bank or a bank holding company before any property of the same kind was distributed under subsection (b) (1) or exchanged under this paragraph; and \"(ii) the exchange and distribution are necessary or appropriate to effectuate the policies of such Act, then paragraph (1) shall not apply with respect to such distri- bution. \"(d) DISTRIBUTIONS To AVOID FEDERAL INCOME T A X . Ś \"(1) PROHIBITED PROPERTY.ŚSubsection (a) shall not apply to a distribution if, in connection with such distribution, the dis- tributing corporation retains, or transfers after May 15, 1955, to any corporation, property (other than prohibited property) as part of a plan one of the principal purposes of which is the distribution of the earnings and profits of any corporation. \"(2) BANKING PROPERTY.ŚSubsection (b) shall not apply to a distribution if, in connection with such distribution, the dis- 70 S T A T . ] 143 PUBLIC LAW 511-MAY 9, 1956 tributing corporation retains, or transfers after May 15, 1955, to any corporation, property (other than property described in subsection (b) (1) (B) ( i ) ) as part of a p i a n one of the principal purposes of which is the distribution of the earnings and profits of any corporation, \"(3) CERTAIN CONTRIBUTIONS TO CAPITAL.ŚIn the case of a dis- tribution a portion of which is attributable to a transfer which is a contribution to the capital of a corporation, made after May 15, 1955, and prior to the date of the enactment of this part, if subsection (a) or (b) Avould apply to such distribution but for the fact that, under paragraph (1) or (2) (as the case may be) of this subsection, such contribution to capital is part of a plan one of the principal purposes of which is to distribute the earnings and profits of any corporation, then, notwithstanding paragraph (1) or (2), subsection (a) or (b) (as the case may be) shall apply to that portion of such distribution not attributable to such con- tribution to capital, and shall not apply to that portion of such distribution attributable to such contribution to capital. \"(e) F I N A L CERTIFICATION.Ś \"(1) FOR SUBSECTION (a).ŚSubsection (a) shall not apply with respect to any distribution by a corporation unless the Board certifies that, before the expiration of the period permitted under section 4 (a) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (includ- ing any extensions thereof granted to such corporation under such section 4 ( a ) ) , the corporation has disposed of all the property the disposition of which is necessary or appropriate to effectuate section 4 of such Act (or would have been so necessary or appropriate if the corporation had continued to be a bank hold- ing company). \"(2) Ante, p╗ 135* FOR SUBSECTION (b).Ś \" ( A ) Subsection (b) shall not apply with respect to any distribution by any corporation unless the Board certifies that, before the expiration of the period specified in subpara- graph ( B ) , the corporation has ceased to be a bank holding company. \" ( B ) The period referred to in subparagraph (A) is the period which expires 2 years after the date of the enactment of this part or 2 years after the date on which the corporation becomes a bank holding company, whichever date is later. The Board is authorized, on application by any corporation, to extend such period from time to time with respect to such corporation for not more than one year at a time if, in its judgment, such an extension would not be detrimental to the public interest; except that such period may not in any case be extended beyond the date 5 years after the date of the enactment of this part or 5 years after the date on which the corporation becomes a bank holding company, whichever date is later. \" ( f ) CERTAIN EXCHANGES OF SECURITIES.ŚIn the case of an ex- change described in subsection (a) (2) (A) (iv) or subsection (b) (2) (A) (iv), subsection (a) or subsection (b) (as the case may be) shall apply only to the extent that the principal amount of the securi- ties received does not exceed the principal amount of the securities exchanged. \"SEC. 1102. SPECIAL RULES. \" (a) BASIS OF PROPERTY ACQUIRED IN DISTRIBUTIONS.ŚIf, by reason of section 1101, gain is not recognized with respect to the receipt of any property, then, under regulations prescribed by the Secretary or his delegateŚ Ante, p . 139. Ii4 68A Stat. 803. 26 u s e 6501. Ante, p. 135. Ante, p. 143. PUBLIC LAW 511-MAY 9, 1956 [70 S T A T . \"(1) if the property is received by a shareholder with respect to stock, without the surrender by such shareholder of stock, the basis of the property received and of the stock with respept to which it is distributed shall, in the distributee's hands, be deter- mined by allocating between such property and such stock the adjusted basis of such stock; or \"(2) if the property is received by a shareholder in exchange for stock or by a security holder in exchange for securities, the basis of the property received shall, in the distributee's hands, be the same as the adjusted basis of the stock or securities exchanged, increased byŚ \" ( A ) the amount of the property received which was treated as a dividend, and \" ( B ) the amount of gain to the taxpayer recognized on the property received (not including any portion of such gain which was treated as a dividend). \" (b) PERIODS OF LIMITATION.ŚThe periods of limitation provided in section 6501 (relating to limitations on assessment and collection) shall not expire, with respect to any deficiency (including interest and additions to the tax) resulting solely from the receipt of property by shareholders in a distribution which is certified by the Board under subsection ( a ) , ( b ) , or (c) of section 1101, until five years after the distributing corporation notifies the Secretary or his delegate (in such manner and with such accompanying information as the Secretary or his delegate may by regulations prescribe) that the period (including extensions thereof) prescribed in section 4 (a) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, or section 1101 (e) (2) ( B ) , whichever is applicable, has expired; and such assessment may be made notwithstanding any provision of law or rule of law which would otherwise prevent such assessment. \" ( c ) AlXOCATION OF EARNINGS AND P R O F I T S . \"(1) DISTRIBUTION OF STOCK I N A CONTROLLED CORPORATION.Ś Ante, p. 139. I n the case of a distribution by a qualified bank holding corpora- tion under section 1101 (a) (1) or (b) (1) of stock in a controlled corporation, proper allocation with respect to the earnings and profits of the distributing corporation and the controlled corpora- tion shall be made under regulations prescribed by the Secretary or his delegate. \"(2) Ante, p. 142. E X C H A N G E S D E S C R I B E D I N SECTION 1 1 0 1 ( o ( 2 ) OR ( s ) . Ś I n the case of any exchange described in section 1101 (c) (2) or ( 3 ) , proper allocation with respect to the earnings and profits of the corporation transferring the property and the corporation receiv- ing such property shall be made under regulations prescribed by the Secretary or his delegate. \"(3) DEFINITION OF CONTROLLED CORPORATION.ŚFor purposes of paragra])h ( 1 ) , the term 'controlled corporation- means a corporation with respect to which at least 80 percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote and at least 80 percent of the total number of shares of all other classes of stock is owned by the distributing qualified bank holding corporation. \" ( d ) ITEMIZATION OF PROPERTY.ŚIn any certification under this j)art, the Board shall make such specification and itemization of prop- erty as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this part. \"SEC. 1103. DEFINITIONS. Ante, p. 133. \" ( a ) B A N K HOLDING COMPANY.ŚFor purposes of this part, the term 'bank holding company' has the meaning assigned to such term by section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. 70 S T A T . ] \"(b) PUBLIC LAW 511-MAY 9, 1956 145 QUALIFIED B A N K HOLDING CORPORATION.Ś \"(1) I N GENERAL.ŚExcept as provided in paragraph (2), for purposes of this part the term 'qualified bank holding corpora- tion' means any corporation (as defined in section 7701 (a) (3)) which is a bank holding company and which holds prohibited property acquired by itŚ \" ( A ) on or before May 15, 1955, \" ( B ) in a distribution in which gain to such corporation with respect to the receipt of such property was not recog- nized by reason of subsection (a) or (b) or section 1101, or \" ( C ) in exchange for all of its stock in an exchange de- scribed in section 1101 (c) (2) or (c) (3). \"(2) 68A Stat. 911. 26 u s e 7701. Ante, p. 139. Ante, p . 142* LIMITATIONS.Ś \" ( A ) A bank holding company shall not be a qualified bank holding corporation, unless it would have been a bank holding company on May 15,1955, if the Bank Holding Com- pany Act of 1956 had been in effect on such date, or unless it is a bank holding company determined solely by reference toŚ \" ( i ) property acquired by it on or before May 15, 1955, \"(ii) property acquired by it in a distribution in which gain to such corporation with respect to the re- ceipt of such property was not recognized by reason of subsection (a) or (b) of section 1101, and \"(iii) property acquired by it in exchange for all of its stock in an exchange described in section 1101 (c) (2) or (3). \" ( B ) A bank holding company shall not be a qualified bank holding corporation by reason of property described in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) or clause (ii) of subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, unless such property was acquired in a distribution with respect to stock, which stock was acquired by such bank holding companyŚ \" ( i ) on or before May 15, 1955, \"(ii) in a distribution (with respect to stock held by it on May 15, 1955, or with respect to stock in respect of which all previous applications of this clause are satisfied) with respect to which gain to it was not recognized by reason of subsection (a) or (b) of section 1101, or \"(iii) in exchange for all of its stock in an exchange described in section 1101 (c) (2) or (3). \" ( C ) A corporation shall be treated as a qualified bank holding corporation only if the Board certifies that it satisfies the foregoing requirements of this subsection. \"(c) PROHIBITED PROPERTY.Ś^For purposes of this part, the term 'prohibited property' means, in the case of any bank holding com- pany . p r o p e r t y (other than nonexempt property) the disposition of which* would be necessary or appropriate to effectuate section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 if such company continued to be a bank holding company beyond the period (including any exten- sions thereof) specified in subsection (a) of such section or in section 1101 (e) (2) (B) of this j>art, as the case may be. The term 'pro- hibited property' does not include shares of any company held by a bank holding company to the extent that the prohibitions of section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 do not apply to the owner- ship by such bank holding company of such property by reason of subsection (c) (5) of such section. 69225 O - 57 - 14 (Vol. 70) Ante, p . 139. Ante, p . 142* Ante, p. 139. Ante, p . 142. Ante, p . 135, \"Prohibited proper^\". U6 PUBLIC LAW 512-MAY 9, 1956 [70 S T A T . \" ( d ) NoNEXEMPT PRorERTY.ŚFor purposes of this part, the term 'iionexempt property' meansŚ \"(1) obligations (including notes, drafts, bills of exchange, and bankers' acceptances) having a maturity at the time of issuance of not exceeding 24 months, exclusive of days of grace; \"(2) securities issued by or guaranteed as to principal or in- terest by a government or subdivision thereof or by any instru- mentality of a government or subdivision; or \"(3) money, and the right to receive money not evidenced by a security or obligation (other than a security or obligation de- scribed in paragraph (1) or ( 2 ) ) . \"(e) BOARD.ŚFor purposes of this part, the term 'Board' means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.\" (b) The table of parts for subchapter O of chapter 1 of the Internal 2V^us░c 10^01- Revenue Code of 1954 is amended by adding at the end thereof the 1091. following: \" P a r t V I I I . Distribiitions p u r s u a n t to Bank Holding Company Act of 1956.\" (c) The amendments made by this section shall apply \"with respect to taxable years ending after the date of the enactment of this Act. SAVING P R O V I S I O X SEC. 11. Nothing herein contained shall be interpreted or construed as approving any act, action, or conduct which is or has been or may be in violation of existing law, nor shall anything herein contained constitute a defense to any action, suit, or proceeding pending or here- after instituted on account of anj' prohibited antitrust or monopolistic act, action, or conduct. SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS SEC. 12. If any provision of this Act, or the application of such provision to any person or circumstance, shall be held invalid, the remainder of the Act, and the application of such provision to persons or circumstances other than those to which it is held invalid, shall not be affected thereby. Approved May 9, 1956. Public Law 512 M½y9.1956 [H. R. 6573] CHAPTER 241 ^ ACT rj^Q authorize renewals of a lease of the Annette Island Airport to t h e United States. Be it enacted hy the Senate and House of Repremntatives of the Ai^rt^'Aiask^** United States of America in Congress assembled^ That the Congress of the United States hereby approves the extension, from year to year, until June 30, 1999, of a lease of certain land comprising part of Annette Island, Alaska, for use by the Civil Aeronautics Administra- tion as an airport, entered into by the United States of America and the Council of the Annette Island Keserve on December 13,1948, section 5 of which lease provides that no renewal thereof shall extend beyond June 30, 1959, unless approved by Congress. Approved May 9, 1956."
