"x"
"1" "268 PUBLIC LAW 88-a52-JULY 2. 1964 [78 STAT. TITLE XIŚMISCELLANEOUS Trial by jury. Exceptions. Double jeopardy. Attorney Gen- eral, etc., au- thority. States' author- ity. Appropriation. Separability clause. SEC. 1101. I n any proceeding for criminal contempt arising under title I I , I I I , IV, V, V I , or V I I of this Act, the accused, upon demand therefor, shall be entitled to a trial by jury, which shall conform as near as may be to the practice in criminal cases. Upon conviction, the accused shall not be fined more than $1,000 or imprisoned for more than six months. This section shall not apply to contempts committed in the presence of the court, or so near thereto as to obstruct the administration of justice, nor to the misbehavior, misconduct, or disolwdience of any officer of the court in respect to writs, orders, or process of the court. No person shall be convicted of criminal contempt hereunder unless the act or omission constituting such contempt shall have been inten- tional, as required in other cases of criminal contempt. Nor shall anything herein be construed to deprive courts of their power, by civil contempt proceedings, without a jury, to secure com- pliance with or to prevent obstruction of, as distinguished from punishment for violations of, any lawful writ, process, order, rule, decree, or command of the court in accordance with the prevailing usages of law and equity, including the power of detention. SEC. 1102. No person should be put twice in jeopardy under the laws of the United States for the same act or omission. F o r this reason, an acquittal or conviction in a prosecution for a specific crime under the laws of the United States shall bar a proceeding for crim- inal contempt, which is based upon the same act or omission and which arises under the provisions of this Act; and an acquittal or conviction in a proceeding for criminal contempt, which arises under the provisions of this Act, shall bar a prosecution for a specific crime under the laws of the United States based upon the same act or omission. SEC. 1103. Nothing in this Act shall be construed to deny, impair, or otherwise affect any right or authority of the Attorney General or of the United States or any agency or officer thereof under existing law to institute or intervene in any action or proceeding. SEC. 1104. Nothing contained in any title of this Act shall be construed as indicating an intent on the p a r t of Congress to occupy the field in which any such title operates to the exclusion of State laws on the same subject matter, nor shall anv provision of this Act be construed as invalidating any provision oi State law unless such pro- vision is inconsistent with any of the purposes of this Act, or any provision thereof. SEC. 1105. There are hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out the provisions of this Act. SEC. 1106. If any provision of this Act or the application thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the remainder of the Act and the application of the provision to other persons not similarly situated or to other circumstances shall not be affected thereby. Approved July 2, 1964."
