"x"
"1" "78 STAT.] PUBLIC LAW 88-467-AUG. 20, 1964 565 Public Law 88-467 AN ACT To amend the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, to extend disclosure requirements to the issuers of additional publicly traded securities, to provide for improved qualification and disciplinary procedures for registered brokers and dealers, and for other purposes. August 20, 1964 [S, 1642] Be it enacted hy the Senate and House of Representatives of the Securities Acts United States of America in Congress assembled^ That this Act may Amendments of be cited as the \"Securities Acts Amendments of 1964\". 1964. SEC. 2. Section 3(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is amended by adding at the end thereof the following four paragraphs: Definitions. 48 Stat. 882. \"(18) The term 'person associated with a broker or dealer' means 15 u s e 78c. any partner, officer, director, or branch manager of such broker or dealer (or any person occupying a similar status or performing similar functions), or any person directly or indirectly controlling or con- trolled by such broker or dealer, including any employee of such broker or dealer, except that for the purposes of section 15(b) of this title Post, p. 570. (other than paragraph (7) thereof), persons associated with a broker or dealer whose functions are clerical or ministerial shall not be included in the meaning of such term. The Commission may by rules and regulations classify, for the purpose of any portion or portions of this title, persons, including employees, controlled by a broker or a dealer. \"(19) The terms 'investment company', 'affiliated person', and 'insurance company' have the same meanings as in the Investment 54 Stat. 789. Company Act of 1940. 15 u s e 80a-51. \"(20) The terms 'investment adviser' and 'underwriter' have the 15 u s e 80b-20. same meanings as in the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. \"(21) The term 'person associated with a member' means a person who is registered with a registered securities association pursuant to its rules or who is associated with a broker or dealer which is a member of such association.\" Registration re- SEC. 3. (a) Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 quirements. is amended as follows: 48 Stat. 892. (1) Subparagraphs (I) through (K) of paragraph (1) are redesig- 15 u s e 78i. nated as ( J ) through ( L ) , respectively. (2) A new subparagraph (I) is added after subparagraph ( H ) to read as follows: \" ( I ) material contracts, not made in the ordinary course of business, which are to be executed in whole or in part at or after the filing of the application or which were made not more than two years before such filing, and every material patent or con- tract for a material patent right shall be deemed a material contract;\" (3) A new paragraph (3) is added at the end of subsection (b) to read as follows: \"(3) Such copies of material contracts, referred to in paragraph (1) (I) above, as the Commission may require as necessary or appro- priate for the proper protection of investors and to insure fair dealing in the security.\" Unlisted trading (b) Section 12(f) of said Act is amended to read as follows: privileges. \" ( f ) (1) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, 15 u s e 78Z. any national securities exchange, subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth— \" ( A ) may continue unlisted trading privileges to which a security had been admitted on such exchange prior to the effective Post, p. 566. date of subsection (g) (1) of section 12 of this title. 566 48 Stat. 898. 15 u s e 78s. Post, p. 569. Post, p. 579. Issuers engaged in interstate com- merce. Ante, p. 565. 15 u s e 781. PUBLIC LAW 88-467-AUG. 20, 1964 [78 STAT. \" ( B ) upon application to and approval of such application by the Commission, may extend unlisted trading privileges to any security duly listed and registered on any other national securities exchange. If an extension of unlisted trading privileges to a security was originally based upon its listing and registration on another national securities exchange, such privileges shall continue in effect only so long as such security shall remain listed and registered on any other national securities exchange. \"(2) No application pursuant to this subsection shall be approved unless the Commission finds, after appropriate notice and opportunity for hearing, that the extension of unlisted trading privileges pursuant to such application is necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors. \" (3) The Commission shall by rules and regulations suspend unlisted trading privileges in whole or in part for any or all classes of securities for a period not exceeding twelve months, if it deems such suspension necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors or to prevent evasion of the purposes of this title. \"(4) On the application of the issuer of any security for which unlisted trading privileges on any exchange have been continued or extended pursuant to this subsection, or of any broker or dealer who makes or creates a market for such security, or of any other person having a bona fide interest in the question of termination or suspension of such unlisted trading privileges, or on its own motion, the Commis- sion shall by order terminate, or suspend for a period not exceeding twelve months, such unlisted trading privileges for such security if the Commission finds, after appropriate notice and opportunity for hear- ing, that such termination or suspension is necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors. \"(5) In any proceeding under this subsection in which appropriate notice and opportunity for hearing are required, notice of not less than ten days to the applicant in such proceeding, to the issuer of the security involved, to the exchange which is seeking to continue or extend or has continued or extended unlisted trading privileges for such security, and to the exchange, if any, on which such security is listed and registered, shall be deemed adequate notice, and any broker or dealer who makes or creates a market for such security, and any other person having a bona fide interest in such proceeding, shall upon application be entitled to be heard. \"(6) Any security for which unlisted trading privileges are con- tinued or extended pursuant to this subsection shall be deemed to be registered on a national securities exchange within the meaning of this title. The powers and duties of the Commission under section 19(b) of this title shall be applicable to the rules of an exchange in respect of any such security. The Commission may, by such rules and regulations as it deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, either unconditionally or upon specified terms and conditions, or for stated periods, exempt such securities from the operation of any provision of section 13, 14, or 16 of this title.\" (c) Section 12 of said Act is further amended by adding thereto the following new subsection: \" ( g ) (1) Every issuer which is engaged in interstate commerce, or in a business affecting interstate commerce, or whose securities are traded by use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of inter- state commerce shall— \" ( A ) within one hundred and twenty days after the last day of its firet fiscal year ended after the effective date of this sub- 78 STAT. ] PUBLIC LAW 88-467-AUG. 20, 1964 567 section on which the issuer has total assets exceeding $1,000,000 and a class of equity security (other than an exempted security) held of record by seven hundred and fifty or more persons; and \" ( B ) within one hundred and twenty days after the last day of its first fiscal year ended after two years from the effective date of this subsection on which the issuer has total assets exceeding $1,000,000 and a class of equity security (other than an exempted security) held of record by five hundred or more but less than seven hundred and fifty persons, register such security hj filing with the Commission a registration statement (and such copies thereof as the Commission may require) with respect to such security containing such information and docu- ments as the Commission may specify comparable to that which is required in an application to register a security pursuant to sub- section (b) of this section. Each such registration statement shall become effective sixty days after filing with the Commission or within such shorter period as the Commission may direct. Until such regis- tration statement becomes effective it shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of section 18 of this title. Any issuer may register any class ^| ^^^ ^9j7. of equity security not required to be registered by filing a registration statement pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph. The Com- mission is authorized to extend the date upon which any issuer or class of issuers is required to register a security pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph. \"(2) The provisions of this subsection shall not apply in respect ^.Nonappiica- of— \" ( A ) any security listed and registered on a national securities exchange. \" ( B ) any security issued by an investment company registered pursuant to section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940. ^^ ^^^ |°^^_- \" ( C ) any security, other than permanent stock, guaranty stock, 15 u s e 80a-8. permanent reserve stock, or any similar certificate evidencing nonwithdrawable capital, issued by a savings and loan association, building and loan association, cooperative bank, homestead asso- ciation, or similar institution, which is supervised and examined by State or Federal authority having supervision over any such institution. \" ( D ) any security of an issuer organized and operated ex- clusively for religious, educational, benevolent, fraternal, chari- table, or reformatory purposes and not for pecuniary profit, and no part of the net earnings of which inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual. \" ( E ) any security of an issuer which is a 'cooperative asso- ciation' as defined in the Agricultural Marketing Act, approved Stat. 11. June 15, 1929, as amended, or a federation of such cooperative 46 12 u s e 1141- associations, if such federation possesses no greater powers or pur- i iVij. poses than cooperative associations so defined. \" ( F ) any security issued by a mutual or cooperative organiza- tion which supplies a commodity or service primarily for the benefit of its members and operates not for pecuniary profit, but only if the security is part of a class issuable only to persons who purchase commodities or services from the issuer, the security is transferable only to a successor in interest or occupancy of prem- ises serviced or to be served by the issuer, and no dividends are payable to the holder of the security. (G) any security issued by an insurance company if all of the following conditions are met: \" ( i ) Such insurance company is required to and does file an annual statement with the Commissioner of Insurance (or 31-667 0-65—39 568 Post, p. 579. Exemptions. Termination of registration. Definition. Ante, p. 566. 15 u s e 78l. Post, pp. 569, 574, 579. PUBLIC LAW 88-467-AUG. 20, 1964 [78 STAT. other officer or agency performing a similar function) of its domiciliary State, and such annual statement conforms to that prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners or in the determination of such State com- missioner, officer or agency substantially conforms to that so prescribed. \"(ii) Such insurance company is subject to regulation by its domiciliary State of proxies, consents, or authorizations in respect of securities issued by such company and such regu- lation conforms to that prescribed by the National Associa- tion of Insurance Commissioners. \"(iii) After July 1,1966, the purchase and sales of securi- ties issued by such insurance company by beneficial owners, directors, or officers of such company are subject to regulation (including reporting) by its domiciliary State substantially in the manner provided in section 16 of this title. \"(3) The Commission may by rules or regulations or, on its own motion, after notice and opportunity for hearing, by order, exempt from this subsection any security of a foreign issuer, including any certificate of deposit for such a security, if the Commission finds that such exemption is in the public interest and is consistent with the pro- tection of investors. \" (4) Registration of any class of security pursuant to this subsec- tion shall be terminated ninety days, or such shorter period as the Commission may determine, after the issuer files a certification with the Commission that the number of holders of record of such class of security is reduced to less than three hundred persons. The Com- mission shall after notice and opportunity for hearing deny termina- tion of registration if it finds that the certification is untrue. Ter- mination of registration shall be deferred pending final determination on the question of denial. \"(5) F o r the purposes of this subsection the term 'class' shall include all securities of an issuer which are of substantially similar character and the holders of which enjoy substantially similar rights and privileges. The Commission may for the purpose of this subsection define by rules and regulations the terms 'total assets' and 'held of record' as it deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors in order to prevent circum- vention of the provisions of this subsection.\" (d) Section 12 of said Act is further amended by adding thereto the following new subsection: \" ( h ) The Commission may by rules and regulations, or upon appli- cation of an interested person, by order, after notice and opportunity for hearing, exempt in whole or in part any issuer or class of issuers from the provisions of subsection (g) of this section or from section 13, 14, or 15(d) or may exempt from section 16 any officer, director, or beneficial owner of securities of any issuer, any security of which is required to be registered pursuant to subsection (g) hereof, upon such terms and conditions and for such period as it deems necessary or appropriate, if the Commission finds, by reason of the number of public investors, amount of trading interest in the securities, the nature and extent of the activities of the issuer, income or assets of the issuer, or otherwise, that such action is not inconsistent with the public interest or the protection of investors. The Commission may, for the purposes of any of the above-mentioned sections or subsections of this title, classify issuers and prescribe requirements appropriate for each such class.\" (e) Section 12 of said Act is further amended by adding thereto the following new subsection: 78 STAT. ] PUBLIC LAW 88-467-AUG. 20, 1964 569 \" ( i ) I n respect of any securities issued by banks the deposits of which are insured in accordance with the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the powers, functions, and duties vested in the Commission under ^^^ y|J; J^^^ this title to administer and enforce sections 12, 13, 14(a), 14(c), and note. 16 (1) with respect to national banks and banks operating under the c,^*'f^i^^' os^\" Code of Law for the District of Columbia are vested in the Comptroller pp. '570, IVg.\"' of the Currency, (2) with respect to all other member banks of the Federal Reserve System are vested in the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and (3) with respect to all other insured banks are vested in the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation shall have power to make such rules and regulations as may be necessary for the execution of the functions vested in them as provided in this subsection and none of the rules, regulations, forms or orders issued or adopted by the Commission pursuant to this title shall be in any way binding upon such officers and agencies in the performance of such functions, or upon any such banks in connection with the performance of such functions.\" SEC. 4. Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is \"^^l^i^H;^^^ amended to read as follows: 15 use 78m! \"SEC. 13. (a) Every issuer of a security registered pursuant to sec- tion 12 of this title shall file wath the Commission, in accordance with such rules and regulations as the Commission may prescribe as neces- sary or appropriate for the proper protection of investors and to insure fair dealing in the security— \" (1) such mf ormation and documents (and such copies thereof) as the Commission shall require to keep reasonably current the information and documents required to be included in or filed Avith an application or registration statement filed pursuant to section 12, except that the Commission may not require the filing of any material contract wholly executed before July 1, 1962. \"(2) such annual reports (and such copies thereof), certified if required by the rules and regulations of the Commission by independent public accountants, and such quarterly reports (and such copies thereof), as the Commission may prescribe. Every issuer of a security registered on a national securities exchange shall also file a duplicate original of such information, documents, and reports with the exchange.\" SEC. 5. (a) Section 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 proxies, is amended to read as follows: ^^ ^^^ ^^\"' \"SEC. 14. (a) I t shall be unlawful for any person, by the use of the mails or by any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce or of any facility of a national securities exchange or otherwise, in contra- vention of such rules and regulations as the Commission may pre- scribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, to solicit or to permit the use of his name to solicit any proxy or consent or authorization in respect of any security (other than an exempted security) registered pursuant to section 12 of this title.\" (b) Section 14(b) of said Act is amended to read as follow^s: \" ( b ) I t shall be unlawful for any member of a national securities exchange, or any broker or dealer registered under this title, in con- travention of such rules and regulations as the Commission may pre- scribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the pro- tection of investors, to give, or to refrain from giving a proxy, consent, or authorization in respect of any security registered pursuant to sec- tion 12 of this title and carried for the account of a customer.\" 570 Ante, p. 569. Ante, pp. 565- 569. Over-the-counter markets. 49 Stat. 1377. 15 u s e 78o. Brokers, regis- trations. PUBLIC LAW 88-467-AUG. 20, 1964 [78 STAT. (c) Section 14 of said Act is further amended by adding thereto the following new subsection: \"(c) Unless proxies, consents, or authorizations in respect of a se- curity registered pursuant to section 12 of this title are solicitied by or on behalf of the management of the issuer from the holders of record of such security in accordance with the rules and regulations pre- scribed under subsection (a) of this section, prior to any annual or other meeting of the holders of such security, such issuer shall, in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed by the Commission, file with the Commission and transmit to all holders of record of such security information substantially equivalent to the information which would be required to be transmitted if a solicitation were made, but no information shall be required to be filed or transmitted pur- suant to this subsection before July 1, 1964.\" SEC. 6. (a) Section 15(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is amended to read as follows: \"SEC. 15. (a) (1) No broker or dealer (other than one whose business is exclusively intrastate) shall make use of the mails or of any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce to effect any transaction in, or to induce the purchase or sale of, any security (other than an exempted security or commercial paper, bankers' acceptances, or com- mercial bills) otherwise than on a national securities exchange, unless such broker or dealer is registered in accordance with subsection (b) of this section. \"(2) The Commission may by such rules and regulations or orders as it deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, either unconditionally or upon specified terms and conditions or for specified periods, exempt from paragraph (1) of this subsection any broker or dealer or class of brokers or dealers specified in such rules, regulations, or orders.\" (b) Section 15(b) of said Act is amended to read as follows: \"(b) (1) A broker or dealer may be registered for the purposes of this section by filing with the Commission an application for registra- tion, which shall contain such information in such detail as to such broker or dealer and any persons associated with such broker or dealer as the Commission may by rules and regulations require as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors. Except as hereinafter provided, such registration shall become effec- tive thirty days after the receipt of such application by the Commis- sion or within such shorter period of time as the Commission may determine. \"(2) An application for registration of a broker or dealer to be formed or organized may be made by a broker or dealer to which the broker or dealer to be formed or organized is to be the successor. Such application shall contain such information in such detail as to the applicant and as to the successor and any person associated with the applicant or the successor, as the Commission may by rules and regu- lations require as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors. Except as hereinafter prgvided, such registration shall become effective thirty days after the receipt of such application by the Commission or within such shorter period of time as the Commission may determine. Such registration shall terminate on the forty-fifth day after the effective date thereof, unless prior thereto the successor shall, in accordance with such rules and regulations as the Commission may prescribe, adopt such application as its own. \"(3) If any amenament to any application for registration pursuant to this subsection is filed prior to the effective date of the registration, such amendment shall be deemed to have been filed simultaneously Avith and as part of such application; except that the Commission may, 78 STAT. ] PUBLIC LAW 88-467-AUG. 20, 1964 if it appears necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, defer the effective date of any such registration as thus amended until the thirtieth day after the filing of such iimendment. \"(4) Any provision of this title (other than section 5 and subsection (a) of this section) which prohibits any act, practice, or course of business if the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce are used in connection therewith shall also prohibit any such act, practice, or course of business by any broker or dealer regis- tered pursuant to this subsection or any person acting on behalf of such a broker or dealer, irrespective of any use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce in connection there- with. \"(5) The Commission shall, after appropriate notice and oppor- tunity for hearing, by order censure, deny registration to, suspend for a period not exceeding twelve months, or revoke the registration of, any broker or dealer if it finds that such censure, denial, suspension, or revocation is in the public interest and that such broker or dealer, whether prior or subsequent to becoming such, or any person associated with such broker or dealer, whether prior or subsequent to becoming so associated— \" ( A ) has willfully made or caused to be made in any applica- tion for registration or report required to be filed with the Com- mission under this title, or in any proceeding before the Com- mission with respect to registration, any statement which was at the time and in the light of the circumstances under which it was made false or misleading with respect to any material fact, or has omitted to state in any such application or report any material fact which is required to be stated therein. \" ( B ) has been comvicted within ten years preceding the filing of the application or at any time thereafter of any felony or mis- demeanor which the Commission finds— \"(i) involves the purchase or sale of any security. \" (ii) arises out of the conduct of the business of a broker, dealer, or investment adviser. \"(iii) involves embezzlement, fraudulent conversion, or misappropriation of funds or securities. \"(iv) involves the violation of section 1341, 1342, or 1343 of title 18, United States Code. \" ( C ) is permanently or temporarily enjoined by order, judg- ment, or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction from acting as an investment adviser, underwriter, broker, or dealer, or as an affiliated person or employee of any investment company, bank, or insurance company, or from engaging in or continuing any conduct or practice in connection with any such activity, or in con- nection with the purchase or sale of any security. \" ( D ) has willfully violated any provision of the Securities Act of 1933, or of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, or of the Investment Company Act of 1940, or of this title, or of any rule or regulation under any of such statutes. \" ( E ) has willfully aided, abetted, counseled, commanded, induced, or procured the violation by any other person of the Securities Act of 1933, or the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, or the Investment Company Act of 1940, or of this title, or of any rule or regulation under any of such statutes or has failed reasonably to supervise, with a view to preventing violations of such statutes, rules, and regulations, another person who com- mits such a violation, if such other person is subject to his super- vision. For the purposes of this clause (E) no person shall b© deemed to have failed reasonably to supervise any pereon, if— 571 48 Stat. 885. 15 u s e 78e. tratloLf °^'^''^'^' ro^taS.'^saa\"' 54 sfat^*^7 Jg\"*' is use 77k, soa- si, 8ob-2o. 572 PUBLIC LAW 88-467-AUG. 20, 1964 [78 STAT. \"(i) there have been established procedures, and a system for applying such procedures, which would reasonably be expected to prevent and detect, insofar as practicable, any such violation by such other person, and \"(ii) such person has reasonably discharged the duties and obligations incumbent upon him by reason of such proce- dures and system without reasonable cause to believe that such procedures and system were not being complied with. \" ( F ) is subject to an order of the Commission entered pursu- ant to paragraph (7) of this subsection (b) barring or suspend- ing the right of such person to be associated with a broker or dealer\", which order is in effect with respect to such person. Postponement of ^^ (Q) Pending final determination whether any registration under rag s ra on. ^j^j^ subsectiou shall be denied, the Commission may by order post- pone the effective date of such registration for a period not to exceed fifteen days, but if, after appropriate notice and opportunity for hear- ing (which may consist solely of affidavits and oral arguments), it shall appear to the Commission to be necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors to postpone the effective date of such registration until final determination, the Com- mission shall so order. Pending final determination whether any such registration shall be revok^^, the Commission shall by order suspend such registration if, after appropriate notice and oppor- tunity for hearing, such suspension shall appear to the Commission to be necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protec- tion of investors. Any registered broker or dealer may, upon such terms and conditions as the Commission may deem necessary in the public interest or for the protection of investors, withdraw from regis- tration by filing a written notice of withdrawal with the Commission. If the Commission finds that any registered broker or dealer, or any broker or dealer for whom an application for registration is pend- ing, is no longer in existence or has ceased to do business as a broker or dealer, the Commission shall by order cancel the registration or application of such broker or dealer. \"(7) The Commission may, after appropriate notice and oppor- tunity for hearing, by order censure any person, or bar or suspend for a period not exceeding twelve months any person from being associated with a broker or dealer, if the Commission finds that such censure, barring, or suspension is in the public interest and that such person has committed or omitted any act or omission enumerated in clause ( A ) , (D) or ( E ) of paragraph (5) of this subsection or has been convicted of any offense specified in clause (B) of said paragraph (5) within ten years of the commencement of the proceedings under this paragraph or is enjoined from any action, conduct, or practice specified m clause (C) of said paragraph (5). I t shall be-unlawful for any person as to whom such an order barring or suspending him from being associated with a broker or dealer is m effect, willfully to become, or to be, associated with a broker or dealer, without the consent of the Commission, and it shall be unlawful for any broker or dealer to permit such a person to become, or remain, a person associated with him, without the consent of the Commission, if such broker or dealer knew, or in the exercise of reasonable care, should have known, of such order. \"(8) No broker or dealer registered under section 15 of this title shall, during any period when it is not a member of a securities asso- Poat, pp. 574- ciation registered with the Commission under section 15A of this title, 579 effect any transaction in, or induce the purchase or sale of, any security (otherwise than on a national securities exchange) unless such broker or dealer and all natural persons associated with such broker or dealer 78 STAT. ] PUBLIC LAW 88-467-AUG. 20, 1964 573 meet such specified and appropriate standards with respect to training, experience, and such other qualifications as the Commission finds neces- sary or desirable. The Commission shall establish such standards by rules and regulations, which may— \" ( A ) appropriately classify brokers and dealers and persons associated with brokers and dealers (taking into account relevant matters, including types of business done and nature of securities sold). \" ( B ) specify that all or any portion of such standards shall be applicable to any such class. \" ( C ) require persons in any such class to pass examinations prescribed in accordance with such rules and regulations. \" ( D ) provide that persons in any such class other than a broker or a dealer and partners, officers, and supervisory employees (which latter term may be defined by the Commission's rules and regulations and as so defined shall include branch managers of brokers or dealers) of brokers or dealers, may be qualified solely on the basis of compliance with such specified standards of train- ing and such other qualifications as the Commission finds appropriate. The Commission may prescribe by rules and regulations reasonable fees and charges to defray its costs in carrying out this paragraph, including, but not limited to, fees for any examination administered by it, or under its direction. The Commission may cooperate with securities associations registered under section ISA of this title and 57^°^^' ^^' ^^^' with national securities exchanges in administering examinations and may require brokers and dealers subject to this paragraph and persons associated with such brokers and dealers to pass examinations admin- istered by or on behalf of any such association or exchange and to pay to such association or exchange reasonable fees or charges to defray the costfe incurred by such association or exchange in administering such examinations. \"(9) In addition to the fees and charges authorized by paragraph (8), each broker or dealer registered under section 15 of this title not a member of a securities association registered pursuant to section ] 5A of this title shall pay to the Commission such reasonable fees and charges as may be necessary to defray the costs of additional regula- tory duties required to be performed by the Commission because such broker or dealer is not a member of such a securities association. The Commission shall establish such fees and charges by rules and regula- tions. \"(10) No broker or dealer subject to paragraph (8) of this sub- section shall effect any transaction in, or induce the purchase or sale of, any security (otherwise than on a national securities exchange) in contravention of such rules and regulations as the Commission may prescribe designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to provide safeguards against unreasonable profits or unreasonable rates of commissions or other charges, and in general, to protect in- vestors and the public interest, and to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market.\" (c) Section 15(c) of said Act is amended by adding at the end \" f,«^A%^°J^ 15 u ''^'\" s e 78o. thereof the following new paragraphs: '\" °\" \"(4) If the Commission finds, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that any person subject to the provisions of section 12, 13, or Ante, pp. 565- subsection (d) of section 15 of this title or any rule or regulation there- 569; Post, p. 574. under has failed to comply with any such provision, rule, or regula- tion in any material respect, the Commission may publish its findings and issue an order requiring such person to comply with such provision or such rule or regulation thereunder upon such terms and conditions and within such time as the Commission may specify in such order. 574 49 Stat. 1379. 15 u s e 78o. 48 Stat. 74; 68 Stat. 683. 15 u s e 77a-77z. Ante, pp. 565- 569. Definition. National secu- rities associa- tions. Registration requirements. 52 Stat. 1070. 15 u s e 780-3. PUBLIC LAW 88-467-AUG. 20, 1964 [78 STAT. \"(5) If in its opinion the public interest and the protection of in- vestors so require, the Commission is authorized summarily to suspend trading, otherwise than on a national securities exchange, in any secu- rity (other than an exempted security) for a period not exceeding ten days. No broker or dealer shall make use of the mails or of any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce to effect any transaction in, or to induce the purchase or sale of, any security in which trading is so suspended.\" (d) Section 15(d) of said Act is amended to read as follows: \" ( d ) Each issuer which has filed a registration statement contain- ing an undertaking which is or becomes operative under this subsec- tion as in effect prior to the date of enactment of the Securities Acts Amendments of 1964, and each issuer which shall after such date file a registration statement which has become effective pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, shall file with the Commission, in accordance with such rules and regulations as the Commission may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, such supplementary and periodic informa- tion, documents, and reports as may be required pursuant to section 13 of this title in respect of a security registered pursuant to section 12 of this title. The duty to file under this subsection shall be auto- matically suspended if and so long as any issue of securities of such issuer is registered pursuant to section 12 of this title. The duty to file under this subsection shall also be automatically suspended as to any fiscal year, other than the fiscal year within which such registration statement became effective, if, at the beginning of such fiscal year, the securities of each class to which the registration statement relates are held of record by less than three hundred persons. For the pur- poses of this subsection, the term 'class' shall be construed to include all securities of an issuer which are of substantially similar character and the holder's of which enjoy substantially similar rights and privi- leges. Nothing in this subsection shall apply to securities issued by a foreign government or political subdivision thereof.\" SEC. 7. (a) Section 15A(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is amended as follows: (1) The semicolons at the end of paragraphs (1) through (8) are stricken out and periods are inserted in lieu thereof. (2) Paragraph (3) thereof is amended to read as follows: \"(3) the rules of the association provide that any broker or dealer who makes use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce to effect any transaction in, or to induce the purchase or sale of, anv security otherwise than on a national securities exchange, may become a member of such association, except such as are excluded pursuant to paragraph (4) or (5) of this subsection, or a rule of the association permitted under this paragraph. The rules of the association may restrict membership in such association on such specified geographical basis, or on such specified basis relating to the type of business done by its members, or on such other specified and appropriate basis, as appears to the Commission to be necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors and to carry out the purpose of this section. Rules adopted by the association may provide that the association may, unless the Commission directs otherwise in cases in which the Commission finds it appropriate in the public interest so to direct, deny admission to or refuse to continue in such association any broker or dealer if— \" (A) such broker or dealer, whether prior or subsequent to becoming such, or 78 STAT. ] PUBLIC LAW 88-467-AUG. 20, 1964 575 \" ( B ) any person associated with such broker or dealer, whether prior or subsequent to becoming so associated, has been and is suspended or expelled from a national securities exchange or has been and is barred or suspended from being associated with all members of such exchange, for violation of any rule of such exchange.\". (3) Paragraph (4) thereof is amended to read as follows: \"(4) the rules of the association provide that, except with the approval or at the direction of the Commission in cases in which the Commission finds it appropriate in the public interest so to approve or direct, no broker or dealer shall be admitted to or continued in membership in such association, if such broker or dealer— \" ( A ) has been and is suspended or expelled from a regis- tered securities association (whether national or affiliated) or from a national securities exchange or has been and is barred or suspended from being associated with all members of such association or from being associated with all brokers or dealers which are members of such exchange, for violation of any rule of such association or exchange which prohibits any act or transaction constituting conduct inconsistent with just and equitable principles of trade, or requires any act the omission of which constitutes conduct inconsistent with just and equitable principles of trade. \" ( B ) is subject to an order of the Commission denying, suspending for a period not exceeding twelve months, or revoking his registration pursuant to section 15 of this title, ^,'^\"'^' ^^' ^^°\" or expelling or suspending him from membership in a regis- 574. tered securities association or a national securities exchange, or barring or suspending him from being associated with a broker or dealer. \" ( C ) whether prior or subsequent to becoming a broker or dealer, by his conduct while associated with a broker or dealer, was a cause of any suspension, expulsion, or order of the character described in clause (A) or (B) which is in effect with respect to such broker or dealer, and in entering such a suspension, expulsion, or order, the Commission or any such exchange or association shall have jurisdiction to determine whether or not any person was a cause thereof. \" ( D ) has associated with him any person who is known, or in the exercise of reasonable care should be known, to him to be a person who, if such person were a broker or dealer, would be ineligible for admission to or continuance in mem- bership under clause ( A ) , ( B ) , or (C) of this paragraph.\" (4) Paragraphs (5) through (10) thereof are redesignated as paragraphs (6) through (11), respectively, and a new paragraph (5) is added to read as follows: \"(5) the rules of the association provide that, except with the approval or at the direction of the Commission in cases in which the Commission finds it appropriate in the public interest so to approve or direct, no person shall become a member and no natural person shall become a person associated with a member, unless such person is qualified to become a member or a person associated with a member in conformity with specified and appropriate standards with respect to the training, experience, and such other qualifica- tions of such person as the association finds necessary or desirable, and in the case of a member, the financial responsibility of such member. F o r the purpose of defining such standards and the application thereof, such rules may— 576 48 Stat. 904. 1 c u 15 Tier' s e 78ff. •7otf PUBLIC LAW 88-467-AUG. 20, 1964 [78 STAT. \" ( A ) appropriately classify prospective members (taking into account relevant matters, includmg type of business done and nature of securities sold) and persons proposed to be associated with members. \" ( B ) specify that all or any portion of such standards shall be applicable to any such class. \" ( C ) require persons in any such class to pass examinations prescribed in accordance with such rules. \" ( D ) provide that persons in any such class other than prospective members and partners, officers and supervisory employees (which latter term may be defined by such rules and as so defined shall include branch managers of members) of members, may be qualified solely on the basis of compliance with specified standards of training and such other qualifi- cations as the association finds appropriate. \" ( E ) provide that applications to become a member or a person associated with a member shall set forth such facts as the association may prescribe as to the training, experi- ence, and other qualifications (including, in the case of an appilicant for membership, financial responsibility) of the applicant and that the association may adopt procedures for verification of qualifications of the applicant. \" ( F ) require any class of persons associated with a mem- ber to be registered with the association in accordance with procedures specified by such rules (and any application or document supplemental thereto required by such rules of a person seeking to be registered with such association shall, foj. the Durposcs of subsection (a) of section 32 of this title, . 1 !• • • - ! 1 m i 1 1 • be deemed an application required to be tiled under this title).\" (5) Redesignated paragraph (9) is amended to read as follows: \"(9) the rules of the association provide that its members and persons associated with its members shall be appropriately dis- ciplined, by expulsion, suspension, fine, censure, or being sus- pended or barred from being associated with all members, or any other fitting penalty, for any violation of its rules.\". (6) Redesignated paragraph (10) is amended to read as follows: \"(10) the rules of the association provide a fair and orderly procedure with respect to the disciplining of members and persons associated with members and the denial of membership to any broker or dealer seeking membership therein or the barring of any person from being associated with a member. I n any proceeding to determine whether any member or other person shall be disciplined, such rules shall require that specific charges be brought; that such member or person shall be notified of, and be given an opportunity to defend against, such charges; that a rec- ord shall be kept; and that the determination shall include— \" (A) a statement setting forth any act or practice in which such member or other person may be found to have engaged, or which such member or other person may be found to have omitted. \" ( B ) a statement setting forth the specific rule or rules of the association of which any such act or practice, or omis- sion to act, is deemed to be in violation. \" ( C ) a statement whether the acts or practices prohibited by such rule or rules, or the omission of any act required thereby, are deemed to constitute conduct inconsistent with just and equitable principles of trade. \" ( D ) a statement setting forth the penalty imposed. 78 STAT. ] PUBLIC LAW 88-467-AUG. 20, 1964 577 In any proceeding to determine whether a broker or dealer shall be denied membership or whether any person shall be barred from being associated with a member, such rules shall provide that the broker or dealer or person shall be notified of, and be given an opportunity to be heard upon, the specific grounds for denial or bar which are under consideration; that a record shall be kept; and that the determination shall set forth the specific grounds upon which the denial or bar is based,\". (7) Section 15A(b) of said Act is further amended by adding at fs usc'rso-a, the end thereof the following: \"(12) the rules of the association include provisions governing the form and content of quotations relating to securities sold otherwise than on a national securities exchange which may be disseminated by any member or any person associated with a member, and the persons to whom such quotations may be sup- plied. Such rules relating to quotations shall be designed to pro- duce fair and informative quotations, both at the wholesale and retail level, to prevent fictitious or misleading quotations, and to promote orderly procedures for collecting and publishing quotations. The provisions of this subsection, as in effect prior to the date of enactment of the Securities Acts Amendments of 1964, shall be appli- cable to the rules of any registered securities association which was registered on such date until July 1, 1964. After July 1, 1964, the Commission may, after notice and opportunity for hearing, suspend the registration of any such association if it finds that the rules thereof do not conform to the requirements of this subsection, as amended by section 7 of the Securities Acts Amendments of 1964, and any such suspension shall remain in effect until the Commission issues an order determining that such rules have been modified to conform with such requirements.\" (b) Section 15A(d)(2) is amended by striking the figure \" ( 9 ) \" inserting in lieu thereof \"(10)\", and by inserting \"and paragraph (12),\" immediately after \"inclusive,\". (c) Section 15A(g) is amended to read as follows: ^5 ug^\" ^^^^^ \" ( g ) If any registered securities association (whether national or affiliated) takes any disciplinary action against any member thereof or any person associated with such a member or denies admission to any broker or dealer seeking membership therein^ or bars any person from being associated with a member, such action shall be subject to review by the Commission, on its own motion, or upon application by any person aggrieved thereby filed within thirty days after such action has been taken or within such longer period as the Commission may determine. Application to the Commission for review, or the institution of review by the Commission on its own motion, shall oper- ate as a stay of such action until an order is issued upon such review pursuant to subsection ( h ) , unless the Commission otherwise orders, after notice and opportunity for hearing on the question of a stay (which hearing may consist solely of affidavits and oral arguments).\" (d) Section 15A(h) of said Act is amended to read as follows: \" ( h ) (1) In a proceeding to review disciplinary action taken by a registered securities association against a member thereof or a person associated with a member, if the Commission, after appropriate notice and opportunity for hearing, upon consideration of the record before the association and such other evidence as it may deem relevant— \" (A) finds that such member or person has engaged in such acts or practices, or has omitted such act, as the association has found liim to have engaged in or omitted, and 578 15 use yso'^^s PUBLIC LAW 88-467-AUG. 20, 1964 [78 STAT. \" ( B ) determines that such acts or practices, or omission to act, are in violation of such rules of the association as have been designated in the determination of the association, the Commission shall by order dismiss the proceeding, unless it ap- pears to the Commission that such action should be modified in accord- ance with paragraph (2) of this subsection. The Commission shall likewise determine whether the acts or practices prohibited, or the omission of any act required, by any such rule constitute conduct in- consistent with just and equitable principles of trade, and shall so declare. If it appears to the Commission that the evidence does not warrant the finding required in clause ( A ) , or if the Commission determines that such acts or practices as are found to have been en- gaged in are not prohibited Iby the designated rule or rules of the association, or that such act as is found to have been omitted is not required b^ such designated rule or rules, the Commission shall by order set aside the action of the association. \"(2) If, after appropriate notice and opportunity for hearing, the Commission finds that any penalty imposed upon a member or person associated with a member is excessive or oppressive, having due regard to the public interest, the Commission shall by order cancel, reduce, or require the remission of such penalty. \"(3) In any proceeding to review the denial of membership in a registered securities association or the barring of any person from being associated with a member, if the Commission, after appropriate notice and hearing, and upon consideration of the record before the association and such other evidence as it may deem relevant, deter- mines that the specific grounds on which such denial or bar is based exist in fact and are valid under this section, the Commission shall by order dismiss the proceeding; otherwise, the Commission shall by order set aside the action of the association and require it to admit the applicant broker or dealer to membership therein, or to permit such person to be associated with a member.\" (^) Section 15A(k) (2) of said Act is amended to read as follows: \"(2) The Commission may in writing request any registered se- curities association to adopt any specified alteration of or supplement to its rules with respect to any of the matters hereinafter enumerated. If such association rails to adopt such alteration or supplement within a reasonable time, the Commission is authorized by order to alter or supplement the rules of such association in the manner thereto- fore requested, or with such modifications of such alteration or supple- ment as it deems necessary if, after appropriate notice and oppor- t unity for hearing, it appears to the Commission that such alteration or supplement is necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors or to effectuate the purposes of this section, with respect to— \" ( A ) the basis for, and procedure in connection with, the denial of membership or the barring from being associated with a member or the disciplining of members or persons associated with members, or the qualifications required for members or natural persons associated with members or any class thereof. \" ( B ) the method fbr adoption of any change in or addition to the rules of the association. \" ( C ) the method of choosing officers and directors. \" ( D ) affiliation between registered securities associations.\" (f) Section 15A(1) of said Act is amended (1) by striking out the semicolon at the end of paragraph (1) thereof and inserting a period, and (2) by striking out paragraph (2) and inserting the following: \"(2) after appropriate notice and opportunity for hearing, by order to suspend for a period not exceeding twelve months or 78 STAT. ] PUBLIC LAW 88-467-AUG. 20, 1964 579 to expel from a registered securities association any member thereof, or to suspend for a period not exceeding twelve months or to bar any person from being associated with a member thereof, if the Commission finds that such member or person— \" ( A ) has violated any provision of this title or any rule or regulation thereunder, or has effected any transaction for any other person who, he had reason to believe, was violating with respect to such transaction any provision of this title or any rule or regulation thereunder. \" ( B ) has willfully violated any provision of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or of any rule or regulation there- gg'^gtat^^esa^' under, or has effected any transaction for any other person 15 use 77 a- who, he had reason to believe, was willfully violating with 77z. respect to such transaction any provision of such Act or rule or regulation.\" SEC. 8. (a) Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is js stau 89^6. amended to read as follows: \"SEC. 16. (a) Every person who is directly or indirectly the bene- ficial owner of more than 10 per centum of any class of any equity security (other than an exempted security) which is registered pur- suant to section 12 of this title, or who is a director or an officer of ^\"'®' PP- ^es- the issuer of such security, shall file, at the time of the registration of such security on a national securities exchange or by the effective date of a registration statement filed pursuant to section 12(g) of this title, or within ten days after he becomes such beneficial owner, director, or officer, a statement with the Commission (and, if such security is registered on a national securities exchange, also with the exchange) of the amount of all equity securities of such issuer of which he is the beneficial owner, and within ten days after the close of each calendar month thereafter, if there has been a change in such ownership during such month, shall file with the Commission (and if such security is registered on a national securities exchange, shall also file with the exchange), a statement indicating his ownership at the close of the calendar month and such changes in his ownership as have occurred during such calendar month.\" (b) Section 16 of said Act is further amended by redesignating subsection (d) thereof as (e) and adding a new subsection (d) as follows: \" ( d ) The provisions of subsection (b) of this section shall not apply to any purchase and sale, or sale and purchase, and the provisions of subsection (c) of this section shall not apply to any sale, of an equity security not then or theretofore held by him in an investment account, by a dealer in the ordinary course of his business and incident to the establishment or maintenance by him of a primary or secondary mar- ket (otherwise than on a national securities exchange or an exchange exempted from registration under section 5 of this title) for such secu- ^^ ^^^ ^^*'- rity. The Commission may, by such rules and regulations as it deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest, define and prescribe terms and conditions with respect to securities held in an investment account and transactions made in the ordinary course of business and incident to the establishment or maintenance of a primary or secondary market.\" SEC. 9. Section 20(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is ^^ use 78t. amended to read as follows: \"(c) I t shall be unlawful for any director or officer of, or any owner of any securities issued by, any issuer required to file any document, report, or information under this title or any rule or regulation there- under without just cause to hinder, delay, or obstruct the making or filing of any such document, report, or information.\" 580 PUBLIC LAW 88-467-AUG. 20, 1964 [78 STAT. SEC. 10. Subsection (b) of section 23 of the Securities Exchange A c t of 1934 is amended by a d d i n g at t h e end tliereof t h e following new sentence: \"The Commission shall include in its annual reports to the Congress for the fiscal years ended on June 30 of 1965, 1966, and 1967 information, data, and recommendations specifically related to the operation of the amendments to this Act made by the Securities Acts Amendments of 1964.\" SEC. 11. The first sentence of subsection (b) of section 32 of the 49 Stat. 1380. Securitics Exchange Act of 1934 is amended (1) by striking out \"pur- suant to an undertaking contained in a registration statement as pro- vided in\" and inserting in lieu thereof \"required to be filed under\" and (2) by inserting immediately after \"this title\" the following: \"or any rule or regulation thereunder\". 48 Stat. 77. SEC. 12. Scction 4 of the Securities Act of 1933 is amended to read llsLlZt as follows: 15 use 77e. \"SEC. 4. The provisions of section 5 shall not apply to— \"(1) transactions by any person other than an issuer, under- writer, or dealer. \" (2) transactions by an issuer not involving any public offering. \"(3) transactions by a dealer (including an undei-writer no longer acting as an underwriter in respect of the security involved in such transaction), except— \" ( A ) transactions taking place prior to the expiration ot forty days after the first date upon which the security was bona fide offered to the public by the issuer or by or through an underwriter, \" ( B ) transactions in a security as to which a registration statement has been filed taking place prior to the expiration of forty days after the effective date of such registration state- ment or prior to the expiration of forty days after the first date upon which the security was bona fide offered to the public by the issuer or by or through an underwriter after such effective date, whichever is later (excluding in the com- putation of such forty days any time during'which a stop 54 Stat. 857. Order issued under section 8 is in effect as to the security), 15 use 77h. or such shorter period as the Commission may specify by rules and regulations or order, and \" ( C ) transactions as to securities constituting the whole or a part of an unsold allotment to or subscription by such dealer as a participant in the distribution of such securities by the issuer or by or through an underwriter. With respect to transactions referred to in clause ( B ) , if securi- ties of the issuer have not previously been sold pursuant to an earlier effective registration statement the applicable period, instead of forty days, shall be ninety days, or such shorter period as the Commission may specify by rules and regulations or order. \"(4) brokers' transactions executed upon customers' orders on any exchange or in the over-the-counter market but not the solicitation of such orders.\" Effective dates. ^^^ i^ -j^g amendments made by this Act shall take effect as follows: (1) The effective date of section 12(g)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as added by section 3(c) of this Act, shall be July 1,1964. (2) The effective date of the amendments to sections 12(b) and 15(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, contained in sections 3 (a) and 6 ( a ) , respectively, of this Act, shall be July 1,1964. (3) All other amendments contained in this Act shall take effect on the date of its enactment. Approved August 20, 1964. 48 Stat. 901. 15 78w."
