"x"
"1" "79 STAT. ] PUBLIC LAW 89-174-SEPT. 9, 1965 667 Public Law 89-174 AN A C T September 9, 1965 To establish a D e p a r t m e n t of Housing a n d Urban Development, and for other [H. R . 6927] purposes. Be it enacted hy the Senate arid House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assemhled^ That this Act may H<^^s^n'^*'^nd\jrban be cited as the ''Department of Housing and I'rban Development Deveiopm.\"nt AC^\" Act\". DE!CX.\.R.VTION o r PURPOSE SEC. 2. The Congress hereby declares that the general welfare and security of the Nation and tlie health and living standards of our people require, as a matter of national purpose, sound development of the Nation's communities and metropolitan areas in which the vast majority of its people live and work. To carry out such purpose, and in recognition of tlie increasing importance of housing and urban development in our national life, the Congress finds that establishment of an executive department is desirable to achieve the best administration of the principal programs of the Federal Government which provide assistance for housing and for the development of the Nation's communities; to assist the Presi- dent in achieving maximum coordination of the various Federal activ- ities which have a major effect upon urban community, suburban, or metropolitan development; to encourage the solution of problems of housing, urban development, and mass transportation through State, county, town, village, or other local and private action, including promotion of interstate, regional, and metropolitan cooperation; to encourage the maximum contributions that may be made by vigorous private homebuilding and mortgage lending industries to housing, urban development, and the national economy; and to provide for full and appropriate consideration, at the national level, of the needs and interests of the Nation's communities and of the people who live and work in them. ESTABLISHMENT OF DEPARTMENT SEC. 3. (a) Thei-e is hereby established at the seat of government an executive department to be known as the Department of Housing and Urban Development (hereinafter referred to as the \"Depart- ment\"'). There shall be at the head of the Department a Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (hereinafter referied to as the \"Secretary\"), who shall be appointed by the President by and wnth the advice and consent of tlie Senate. The Department shall be administered under the supervision and direction of the Secretaiy. The Secretary shall receive compensation at the i*ate now or hereafter prescribed by law for the heads of executive departments. (b) The Secretary shall, among his responsibilities, advise the President with respect to Federal programs and activities relating to liousing and urban development; develop and recommend to the Presi- dent policies for fostering the orderly growth and development of the Nation's urban areas; exercise leadership at the direction of the President in coordinating Federal activities affecting housing and urban de>elopmeiit; pro^-ide technical assistance and information, including a clearinghouse service to aid State, county, town, village, or other local governments in developing solutions to community and metropolitan development problems; consult and cooperate with State (Tovernors and State agencies, including, when appropriate, holding informal public hearings, with respect to Federal and !^tate programs Appointment of Secretary. Duties. 668 PUBLIC LAW 89-174-SEPT. 9, 1965 [79 STAT. for assisting connnunities in developing solutions to community and metropolitan development problems and for encouraging effective regional cooperation in the planning and conduct of community and metropolitan development programs and projects; encourage compre- hensive planning by the State aud local governments with a view to coordinating Federal, State, and local urban and community develop- ment activities; encourage private enterprise to serve as large a part of the Nation's total housing and urban development needs as it can and develop the fullest cooperation with private enterprise in achiev- ing the objectives of the Department; and conduct continuing com- prehensive studies, and make available findings, with res])ect to the problems of housing and urban development. (c) Nothing in this Act shall be construed to deny or limit the bene- fits of any program, function, or actiA'ity assigned to the Department by this or any other Act to any community on the basis of its popula- tion or corporate status, except as may be expressly provided by law. UXDER SECRETARY AND OTHER OFFICERS AND OFFH ES Under Secretary. Assistant Secre- taries. Appointment. Federal Housing Commissioner. Assistant Secre- tary for Admin- istration. Director of Urban Program Coordina- tion. SEC. 4. (a) There shall be in the Department an Tender Secretary, four Assistant Secretaries, and a General Counsel, who shall be ap- pointed by the President by and with the ad\'ice and consent of the Senate, who shall receive compensation at the rate now or hereafter provided by law for under secretaries, assistant secretaries, and general counsels, respectively, of executive departments, and who shall per- form such functions, powers, and duties as the Secretary shall prescribe from time to time. There shall be in the Department a Federal Hous- ing Commissioner, who shall be one of the Assistant Secretaries, who shall head a Federal Housing Administration within the Department, who shall have such duties and powers as may be prescribed by the Secretary, and who shall administer, under the supervision and direc- tion of the Secretary, departmental programs relating to the private mortgage market. (b) There shall be in the Department an Assistant Secretary for Administration, who shall be appointed, with the approval of the President, by the Secretary under the classified civil service, who shall perform such functions, powers, and duties as the Secretary shall pi^- scribe from time to time, and whose annual rate of compensation shall be the same as that now or hereafter provided by or pursuant to law for assistant secretaries for administration of executive departments. (c) There shall be in the Department a Director of Urban Program Coordination, who shall be designated by the Secretary. He shall assist the Secretary in carrying out his responsibilities to the President with respect to achieving maximum coordination of the programs of the various departments and agencies of the Government which have a major impact on community development. In providing such as- sistance, the Director shall make such studies of urban and community problems as the Secretary shall request, and shall develop recom- mendations relating to the administration of Federal programs affect- ing such problems, particularly with respect to achieving effective co- operation among the J'ederal. State, and local agencies concerned. Subject to the direction of the Secretary, the Director shall, in carry- ing out his responsibilities, (1) establish and maintain close liaison with the Federal departments and agencies concerned, and (2) consult with State, local, and regional officials, and consider their recommenda- tions with respect to such jjrograms. 79 STAT. ] PUBLIC LAW 89-174-SEPT. 9, 1965 669 IRAXSFKRS TO D E P A R T M E N T SEC. 5. (a) Except as otlierwise provided in subsection (b) of this section, there are hereby transferred to and vested in the Secretary all of the functions, powers, and duties of the Housing and Home Finance Agency, of the Federal Housing Administration and the Public Hous- ing Administration in that Agency, and of the lieads and other officers and offices of said agencies. (b) The Federal National Mortgage Association, together with its functions, powers, and duties, is hereby transferred to the Department. The next to the last sentence of section 308 of the Federal National ^g stat^'eao Mortgage Association Charter Act and the item numbered (94) of sec- 12 use 1723, tion 303 (e) of the Federal Executive Salary Act of 1964 are hereby re- 5*ulc*22\^/- pealed, and the position of the President of said Association is hereby allocated among the positions referred to in section 7(c) hereof. (c) The President shall undertake studies of the organization of congre'^Is*^ housing and urban development functions and programs within the Federal Government, and he shall provide the Congress with the find- ings and conclusions of such studies, together with his recommenda- tions regarding tlie transfer of such functions and programs to or from the Department. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, none of the functions of the Secretary' of the Interior authorized under the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (78 Stat. 897) J,i^^^ ^^^^'^ or other functions carried out by the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation note. shall be transferred from the Department of the Interior or in any way be limited geogi'aphically unless specificalh- provided for by re- organization plan pursuant to provisions of the Keorganization Act 5 u s e 133z of 1949 (63 Stat. 203), as amended, or by statute. note. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS SEC. 6. (a) Section 19(d) (1) of title 3 of the United States Code is hereby amended by striking out the period at the end thereof and inserting a comma and the following: \"Secretary of Health, Educa- tion, and Welfare, Secretary of Housing and I^rban Development.\" (b) Section 158 of the Revised Statutes (5 I'.S.C. 1) is amended by adding at the end thereof: \"Eleventh. The Department of Housing and I > b a n Development.\" (c) The amendment made by subsection (b) of this section shall not be construed to make applicable to the Department any provision of law inconsistent with this Act. \" stat. 577. ADMINISTKATIVE PROVISIONS SEC. 7. (a) The personnel employed in coiniection with, and the J^^^^l^'' °l assets, liabilities, contracts, property, records, and unexpended balances Lts\" e\"c.' of appropriations, authorizations, allocations, or other funds held, used, arising from, or available or to be made available in connection with, the functions, powers, and duties transferred by section 5 of this Act are hereby transferred with such functions, powei*s, and duties, respectively. (h) No transfer of functions, powers, and duties shall at any time Restriction. be made within the Department in connection with the secondary market operations of the Federal National Mortgage Association un- less the Secretary finds that the rights and interests of owners of outstanding common stock issued under the Federal National Mort- gage Asso<'iation Charter \vt Avill not be adversely affected thereby. ^^ st^t^. 622^ note. 670 Compensation of personnel. 78 Stat. 419, 5 u s e 2211. Delegation of authority. Repeal. 68 Stat. 623. 42 u s e 1451, 60 Stat. 810. 5 u s e S5a. Working c a p i t a l fund. Seal. PUBLIC LAW 89-174-SEPT. 9, 1965 [79 STAT. (c) The Secretary is authorized, subject to the civil service and classification laws, to select, appoint, employ, and fix the compensation of such officers and employees, including attorneys, as shall be neces- sary to carry out the provisions of this Act and to prescribe their authority and duties: Provided, That any other provision of law to the contrary notwithstanding, the Secretary may fix the compensa- tion for not more than six positions in the Department at the annual rate applicable to positions m level V of the Federal Executive Salary Schedule provided by the Federal Executive Salary Act of 1964. (d) The Secretary may delegate any of his functions, powers, and duties to such officers and employees of the Depai-tment as he may designate, may authorize such successive redelegations of such func- tions, powers, and duties as he may deem desirable, and may make such rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out his func- tions, powers, and duties. The second f)roviso of section 101(c) of the Housing Act of 1949 is hereby repealed. (e) The Secretary may obtain services as authorized by section 15 of the Act of August 2,1946, at rates not to exceed $100 per diem for individuals. (f) The Secretary is authorized to establish a working capital fund, to be available without fiscal year limitation, for expenses necessary for the maintenance and operation of such common administrative services as he shall find to be desirable in the interest of economy and efficiency in the Department, including such services as a central supply service for stationery and other supplies and equipment for w^lucli adequate stocks may be maintained to meet in whole or in part the requirements of the Department and its agencies; central messenger, mail, telephone, and other communications services; office space; cen- tral services for document reproduction and for graphics and visual aids; and a central library service. In addition to amounts appro- priated to provide capital for said fund, M-Jiich appropriations are hereby authorized, the fund shall be capitalized by transfer to it of such stocks of supplies and equipment on hand or on order as the Secretary shall direct. Such fund sliall be reimbursed from available funds of agencies and offices in the Department for which services are performed at rates which will return in full all expenses of operation, nicluding reserves for accrued annual leave and for dei)rec]ation of equipment. (g) The Secretaiy shall cause a seal of office to be made for the Department of such device as lie shall approve, and judicial notice shall be taken of such seal. ANMAL KKl'OHT SEC. 8. The Secretarv shall, as soon as practicable after the end of each calendar year, malce a i-eport to the President for submission to the Congress on tlie activities of tlie Department during the preceding calendar year. S , \ V l X ( ; s I'KOVISIOX.S SEC. 9. (a) No cause of action by or against aivy agency whose func- tions are transferred by this Act, or by or against any officer of any agency in his official capacity, shall abate by reason of this enactment. Such causes of action may l^e asserted hy or against the T'nited States or such official of the Department as may l)e appiopriate. 79 STAT. ] PUBLIC LAW 89-174-SEPT. 9, 1965 (b) No suit, action, or other proceeding commenced by or against any agency whose functions are transferred by this Act, or by or against any officer of any such agency in his official capacity, shall abate by reason of the enactment of this Act. A court may at any time during the pendency of the litigation, on its own motion or that of any party, order that the same may be maintained by or against the United States or such official of the Department as may be appropriate. (c) Except as may be otherwise expressly provided in this Act, all powers and authorities conferred by this Act shall be cumulative and additional to and not in derogation of any powers and authorities otherwise existing. All rules, regulations, orders, authorizations, dele- gations, or other actions duly issued, made, or taken by or pursuant to applicable law, prior to the effective date of this Act, by any agency, officer, or office pertaining to any functions, powers, and duties trans- ferred by this Act sliall continue in full force and effect after the effec- tive date of this Act until modified or rescinded by the Secretary or such other officer or office of the Department as, in accordance with applicable law, may be aj)propriate. With respect to any function, tx)wer, or duty transferred by or under this Act and exercised here- after, reference in another Federal law to the Housing and Home Finance Agency or to any officer, office, or agency therein, except the Federal National Mortgage Association and its officers, shall be deemed to mean the Seci'etary. The positions and agencies heretofore estab- lished by law in connection with the functions, ])owers, and duties transferred under sect ion .5(a) of this Act shall lapse. SEPARABILITY SEC. 10. Xotwithstanding any other evidence of the intent of Con- gress, it is hereby declared to be the intent of Congress that if any ])rovision of this Act, or the application thereof to any persons or circumstances, shall be adjudged by any court of competent jurisdic- tion to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair, or invalidate the remainder of this Act or its application to other persons and cir- cumstances, but shall be confined in its operation to the provision of this Act, or the application thereof to the pei-sons and circumstances, directly involved in the controversy in which such judgment shall have been rendered. EFFECTIVE DATE AND IXTERIM APPOIXTMRNTS SEC. 11. (a) The provisions of this Act shall take effect upon the ex- piration of the first period of sixty calendar days following the date (m which this Act is approved by the President, or on such earlier date as the President shall specify by Executive order published in the Fed- eral Register, except that any of the officers provided for in sections i5(a), 4 ( a ) , and 4(b) of this Act may be nominated and appointed, as provided in such sections, at any time after the date this Act is ap- proved by the President. (b) I n the event that one or more officers required by this Act to be appointed, by and with the ad^-ice and consent of the Senate, shall not liav^e entered upon office on the effective date of this Act, the President may designate any pei-son who was an officer of the Housing and Home Finance Agency nnmediately prior to said effective date to act in such office until tlie offi<-e is filled as provided in this Act or until the expira- tion of the fii-st period of sixtjr days following said effective date, whichever shall first occur. While so acting su(.-h persons shall receive compensation at the rates provided l)y this Act for the respective offices in whicli they act. Approved September 9, 1965. 671"
