"x"
"1" "454 PUBLIC LAW 90-439-JULY 29, 1968 [82 STAT. Public Law 90-439 July 29, 1968 1^^- ^^°J AN ACT Providing for full disclosure of corporate equity ownership of securities under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Be it enacted hy the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assemhled, That section 12 (i) i934r°amendment. of the Sscurities Exchaiige Act of 1934 is amended by striking out 78 Stat. 568. \"sections 12, 13, 14(a), 14(c), and 16\" and inserting in lieu thereof 15USC78Z. \"sections 12,13,14(a), 14(c), 14(d), 14(f), and 16\". 15 use 78^m ^^^^' ?' ^^^^i^n 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is amended \"*• by adding at the end thereof the following new subsections: \" ( d ) (1) Any person who, after acquiring directly or indirectly the beneficial ownership of any equity security of a class which is regis- tered pursuant to section 12 of this title or any equity security issued by a closed-end investment company registered under the Investment 15 us^c 8'oa 51 Compauy Act of 1940, is directly or indirectly the beneficial owner of more than 10 per centum of such class shall, within ten days after such acquisition, send to the issuer of the security at its principal execu- tive office, by registered or certified mail, send to each exchange where the security is traded, and file with the Commission, a statement con- taining such of the following information, and such additional in- formation, as the Commission may by rules and regulations prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protec- tion of investors— \" ( A ) the background and identity of all persons by whom or on whose behalf the purchases have been or are to be effected; \" ( B ) the source and amount of the funds or other consideration used or to be used in making the purchases, and if any part of the purchase price or proposed purchase price is represented or is to be represented by funds or other consideration borrowed or otherwise obtained for the purpose of acquiring, holding, or trading such security, * description of the transaction and the names of the parties thereto, except that where a source of funds is a loan made in the ordinary course of business by a bank, as 48 Stat. 883. defined in section 3 ( a ) ( 6 ) of this title, if the person filing such 15 u s e 78c. statement so requests, the name of the bank shall not be made available to the public; \" ( C ) if the purpose of the purchases or prospective purchases is to acquire control of the business of the issuer of the securities, any plans or proposals which such persons may have to liquidate such issuer, to sell its assets to or mer^e it with any other persons, or to make any other major change in its business or corporate structure; \" ( D ) the number of shares of such security which are bene- ficially owned, and the number of shares concerning which there is a ri^ht to acquire, directly or indirectly, bj^ (i) such person, and (ii) by each associate oi such person, giving the name and address of each such associate; and \" ( E ) information as to any contracts, arrangements, or under- standings with any person with respect to any securities of the issuer, including but not limited to transfer of any of the securi- ties, joint ventures, loan or option arrangements, puts or calls, guaranties of loans, guaranties against loss or guaranties of profits, division of losses or profits, or the giving or withholding of proxies, naming the persons with whom such contracts^ ar- rangements, or understandings have been entered into, and giving the details thereof. Securities Ex- change Act of 82 STAT. ] PUBLIC LAW 90-439-JULY 29, 1968 \"(2) If any material change occurs in the facts set forth in the statements to the issuer and the exchange, and in the statement filed with the Commission, an amendment shall be transmitted to the issuer and the exchange and shall be filed with the Commission, in accordance with such rules and regulations as the Commission may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors. \"(3) When two or more persons act as a partnership, limited part- nership, syndicate, or other group for the purpose of acquiring, hold- ing, or disposing of securities of an issuer, such syndicate or group shall be deemed a 'person' for the purposes of this subsection. \"(4) In determining, for purposes of this subsection, any percentage of a class of any security, such class shall be deemed to consist of the amount of the outstanding securities of such class, exclusive of any securities of such class held by or for the account of the issuer or a subsidiary of the issuer. \"(5) The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to— \" ( A ) any acquisition or offer to acquire securities made or proposed to be made by means of a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933; \" ( B ) any acquisition of the beneficial ownership of a security which, together with all other acquisitions by the same person of securities of the same class during the preceding twelve months, does not exceed 2 per centum of that class; \" ( C ) any acquisition of an equity security by the issuer of such security; \" ( D ) any acquisition or proposed acquisition of a security which the Commission, by rules or regulations or by order, shall exempt from the provisions of this subsection as not entered into for the purpose of, and not having the effect of, changing or influencing the control of the issuer or otherwise as not compre- hended within the purposes of this subsection. \" ( e ) ( 1 ) I t shall be unlawful for an issuer which has a class of equity securities registered pursuant to section 12 of this title, or which is a closed-end investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, to purchase any equity security issued by it if such purchase is in contravention of such rules and regulations as the Commission, in the public interest or for the protection of in- vestors, may adopt (A) to define acts and practices which are fraudu- lent, deceptive, or manipulative, and (B) to prescribe means reason- ably designed to prevent such acts and practices. Such rules and regulations may require such issuer to provide holders of equity securities of such class with such information relating to the reasons for such purchase, the source of funds, the number of shares to be pur- chased, the price to be paid for such securities, the method of pur- chase, and such additional information, as the Commission deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, or which the Commission deems to be material to a determination whether such security should be sold. \"(2) For the purpose of this subsection, a purchase by or for the issuer or any person controlling, controlled by, or under common control with the issuer, or a purchase subject to control of the issuer or any such person, shall be deemed to be a purchase by the issuer.\" SEC. 3. Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new subsections: 96-600 O - 69 - 32 455 \"Person.\" 48 stat. 74. ^^ \"^^ ^^^' is use 78/. ^^ use soa-si. ^^ ^^'^ ^^\"• 456 PUBLIC LAW 90-439-JULY 29, 1968 [82 STAT. \" ( d ) (1) It shall be unlawful for any person, directly or-indirectly, by use of the mails or by any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce or of any facility of a national securities exchange or other- wise, to make a tender offer for, or a request or invitation for tenders of, any class of any equity security which is registered pursuant to 15 use 78/. section 12 of this title, or any equity security issued by a closed-end investment company registered under the Investment Company Act 15 use 80a-5i. of 1940, if, after consummation thereof, such person would, directly or indirectly, be the beneficial owner of more than 10 per centum of such class, unless at the time copies of the offer or request or invitation are first published or sent or given to security holders such person has filed w'ith the Commission a statement containing such of the Ante. p. 454. information specified in section 13(d) of this title, and such additional information as the Commission may by rules and regulations prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors. All requests or invitations for tenders or advertisements making a tender offer or requesting or inviting tenders of such a secu- rity shall be filed as a part of such statement and shall contain such of the information contained in such statement as the Commission may by rules and regulations prescribe. Copies of any additional material soliciting or requesting such tender offers subsequent to the initial solicitation or request shall contain such information as the Com- mission may by rules and regulations prescribe as necessary or appro- priate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, and shall be filed with the Commission not later than the time copies of such material are first published or sent or given to security holders. Copies of all statements, in the form in which such material is fur- nished to security holders and the Commission, shall be sent to the issuer not later than the date such material is first published or sent or given to any security holders. \"Person.\" «(Ł) When two or more persons act as a partnership, limited partnership, syndicate, or other ^roup for the purpose of acquiring, holding, or disposing of securities of an issuer, such syndicate or group shall be deemed a 'person' for purposes of this subsection. \"(3) I n determining, for purposes of this subsection, any percent- age of a class of any security, such class shall be deemed to consist of the amount of the outstanding securities of such class, exclusive of any securities of such class held by or for the account of the issuer or a subsidiary of the issuer. \"(4) Any solicitation or recommendation to the holders of such a security to accept or reject a tender offer or request or invitation for tenders shall be made in accordance with such rules and regulations as the Commission may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors. \"(5) Securities deposited pursuant to a tender offer or request or invitation for tenders may be withdrawn by or on behalf of the de- 'positor at any time until the expiration of seven days after the time definitive copies of the offer or request or invitation are first published or sent or given to security holders, and at any time after sixty days from the date of the original tender offer or request or invitation, ex- cept as the Commission may otherwise prescribe by rules, regulations, or order as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors. 82 STAT. ] PUBLIC LAW 90-439-JULY 29, 1968 457 \"(6) Where any person makes a tender offer, or request or invita- tion for tenders, for less than all the outstanding equity securities of a class, and where a greater number of securities is deposited pursuant thereto within ten days after copies of the offer or request or invita- tion are first published or sent or given to security holders than such person is bound or willing to take up and pay for, the securities taken up shall be taken up as nearly as may be pro rata, disregarding frac- tions, according to the number of securities deposited by each de- positor. The provisions of this subsection shall also apply to securities deposited within ten days after notice of an increase in the considera- tion offered to security holders, as described in paragraph (7), is first published or sent or given to security holders. \"(7) Where any person varies the terms of a tender offer or request or invitation for tenders before the expiration thereof by increasing the consideration offered to holders of such securities, such person shall pay the increased consideration to eac!h security holder whose securities are taken up and paid for pursuant to the tender offer or request or invitation for tenders whether or not such securities have been taken up by such person before the variation of the tender offer or request or invitation. \"(8) The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to any offer for, or request or invitation for tenders of, any security— \" (A) proposed to be made by means of a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933; 48 stat. 74. \" ( B ) if the acquisition of such security, together with all other ^^ \"^^ '''^^^ acquisitions by the same person of securities of the same class during the preceding twelve months, would not exceed 2 per centum of that class; \" ( C ) by the issuer of such security; or \" ( D ) which the Commission, by rules or regulations or by order, shall exempt from the provisions of this subsection as not entered into for the purpose of, and not having the effect of, changing or influencing the control of the issuer or otherwise as not compre- hended within the purposes of this subsection. \"(e) I t shall be unlawful for any person to make any untrue state- ment of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in the light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading, or to engage in any fraudu- lent, deceptive, or manipulative acts or practices, in connection with any tender offer or request or invitation for tenders, or any solicitation of security holders in opposition to or in favor of any such offer, re- quest, or invitation. \" ( f ) If, pursuant to any arrangement or understanding with the person or persons acquiring securities in a transaction subject to sub- section (d) of this section or subsection (d) of section 13 of this title, 45^\"'*' ^^ '*^^' any persons are to be elected or designated as directors of the issuer, otherwise than at a meeting of security holders, and the persons so elected or d e s i ^ a t e d will constitute a majority of the directors of the issuer, then, prior to the time any such person takes office as a director, and in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed by the Com- mission, the issuer shall file with the Commission, and transmit to all holders of record of securities of the issuer who would be entitled to vote at a meeting for election of directors, information substantially equivalent to the information which would be required by subsection (a) or (c^ of this section to be transmitted if such person or persons were nominees for election as directors at a meeting of such security holders.\" Approved July 29, 1968."
