"x"
"1" "1364 22 u s e 2151 note. 22 u s e 2751 note. Suspension. Effective period. PUBLIC LAW 93-449-OCT. 18, 1974 [88 STAT. to Turkey until and unless the President certifies to the Congress that the Government of Turkey is in compliance with the Foreign Assist- ance Act of 1961, the Foreign Military Sales Act, and any agreement entered into under such Acts, and that substantial progress toward agreement has been made regarding military forces m Cyprus: Pro- 'vided^ That the President is authorized to suspend the provisions of this section and said Acts if he determines that such suspension will further negotiations for a peaceful solution of the Cyprus conflict. Any such suspension shall be effective only until December 10, 1974 and onl^ if, during that time, Turkey shall observe the ceasefire and shall neither increase its forces on Cyprus nor transfer to Cyprus any U.S. supplied implements of war. Approved October 17, 1974. Public Law 93-449 October 18, 1974 [s. 3979] Erne rgency Home Purcha ase A s s i s t - ance Act of 1974. ^ ^ Be it enacted hy the Senate and House of Representatives United States o f America in Congress assembled. ' i/ SHORT 12 u s e 1723e note. ACT To increase on an emergency basis the availability of reasonably priced mortgage credit for housing. of the / TITLE SECTION 1. This Act may be cited as the \"Emergency Home Purchase Assistance Act of 1974\". FINDINGS 12 u s e 1723e note. SEC. 2. The Congress finds and declares that— (1) in many parts of the Nation, residential mortgage credit is or is likely soon to become prohibitively expensive or unavailable at any price; (2) the unavailability of mortgage credit severely restricts housing production, causes hardship for those who wish to pur- chase or sell new and existing housing, and delays the achieve- ment of the national goal of a decent home for every American family; and ^3) there is an urgent need to provide an alternate source of residential mortgage credit on an emergency basis. INTERIM AUTHORITY SEC. 3. (a) Title I I I of the National Housing Act is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new section: (( I N T E R I M 12 u s e 1723e. 42 u s e 1441a. Termination. A U T H O R I T Y TO P U R C H A S E CERTAIN MORTGAGES \"SEC. 313. (a) (1) Whenever the Secretary finds inflationary condi- tions and related governmental actions are having a severely dispro- portionate effect on the housing industry and the resulting reduction in the volume of home construction or acquisition threatens seriously to affect the economy and to delay the orderly achievement of the national housing goals contained in title X V I of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968, the Secretary shall direct the Asso- ciation to begin making commitments to purchase and to purchase mortgages in accordance with the provisions of this section. \" (2) The Secretary may direct the Association to terminate its activ- ities under this section whenever he determines that the conditions 88 STAT. ] PUBLIC LAW 93-449-OCT. 18, 1974 which gave rise to his determination under paragraph (1) are no longer present. \"(b) Whenever the Secretary issues a directive under subsection (a) (1), the Association shall make commitments to purchase and pur- chase, and may service, sell (with or without recourse), or otherwise deal in, mortgages (1) which cover more than four-family residences (including cooperatives and condominiums and the individual units therein) and which are insured under the National Housing Act and chapter 37 of title 38 of the United States Code, or (2) which cover one- to four-family residences and which are insured under the National Housing Act or guaranteed under chapter 37 of title 38 of the United States Code or by qualified private insurers as determined by the Asso- ciation or the outstanding principal balances of which do not exceed 80 per centum of the value of the property securing the mortgages. A mortgage may be purchased under this section only if— \" (A) such mortgage was executed to finance the acquisition of a one- to four-family residence which will be the principal residence of the mortgagor or to finance the purchase of a more than four- family residence and is subject to a mortgage insured under the National Housing Act; \" ( B ) such mortgage involves an original principal obligation not to exceed $42,000 per family residence or dwelling unit, and except that the original principal obligation may not exceed $55,000 in the case of properties in Alaska, Hawaii, and Guam; \" ( C ) such mortgage involves an interest rate or yield not in excess of that which the Secretary may prescribe, taking into account the cost of funds and administrative costs under this sec- tion, the importance of making mortgage credit available on rea- sonable terms, and current conditions in the mortgage market, but in no event shall such rate exceed a rate equal to the average yield during the month preceding the month in which a com- mitment to purchase such mortgage was issued on all marketable bonds of the United States maturing in more than six but less than twelve years from the date of such commitment (exclusive of bonds with a coupon rate of less than 6 per centum) plus one-half of 1 per centum, adjusted upward to the nearest one-eighth of 1 per centum and taking into account the need to assure that the funds are available in all States pursuant to any maximum mort- gage interest rate permitted under the laws or constitutions of the various States and, notwithstanding any State law or constitu- tion to the contrary, discount points and other charges collected in connection with mortgage transactions under this section and reco^ized by the Association shall not be considered in deter- mining whether the interest rate on any such mortgage exceeds any State usury ceiling. \"(c) The Association may issue to the Secretary of the Treasury its obligations in an amount outstanding at any one time sufficient to enable the Association to carry out its functions under this section. Each such obligation shall mature at such time and be redeemable at the option of the Association in such manner as may be determined by the Association, and shall bear interest at a rate determined by the Sec- retary of the Treasury, taking into consideration the current average yield on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States of comparable maturities during the month preceding the issuance of the obligation of the Association. The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed to purchase any obligations of the Association issued under this section, and for such purposes the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to use as a public debt transaction the proceeds from the sale of any securities issued under the Second Liberty Bond Act, as now or hereafter in force, and the purposes for which securities may be issued under the Second Liberty Bond Act, as now or hereafter 1365 12 use 1701 ^\"as^usc 1 soi. 12 u sc 17 01 ^\"^o\"°'a\"g ri - cipai obUgation' limitation. interest rate. interest rate. 31 use 774. 1366 12 u s e 1721. Limitation. Effective date. 12 u s e 1723e note. PUBLIC LAW 93-449-OCT. 18, 1974 [88 STAT. in force, are extended to include any purchase of the Association's obligations hereunder. \" ( d ) (1) The Association is authorized to guarantee securities based on pools or trusts of the mortgages purchased by the Association under this section as provided in section 306(g) of this Act with respect to federally insured or guaranteed mortgages and to act as issuer of such guaranteed securities. The Association shall possess with respect to securities under this section all the powers it possesses with respect to securities guaranteed under such section 306 ( g ) , and the provisions of such section shall apply to guarantees under this section, except that such section shall not be deemed to prohibit the Secretary from guaranteeing payment of only a p a r t of the principal and interest on securities issued under the provisions of this section. \"(2) The Association may offer and sell any securities guaranteed under this subsection to the Federal Financing Bank, and such Bank is authorized to purchase any securities so offered. The Association may also offer and sell any securities guaranteed under this subsection to any Federal Reserve bank. The proceeds from the sale of such securities when issued by the Association shall be treated in the accounts in the same manner as if such proceeds were from the sale of the underlying mortgages. \"(e) The Secretary may make available a portion of his authority under this section to purchase mortgages covering housing which has been constructed more than twelve months prior to enactment of this section in areas where he determines that there is a serious shortage of mortgage credit to purchase such housing. \"(f) The Association is authorized to—• \"(1) sell mortgages purchased under this section of prices which it determines will help promote the objective of assuring that operations under this section are, to the extent feasible, fully self-supporting; \"(2) pay for services performed in carrying out its functions under this section without regard to any limitation on adminis- trative expenses heretofore enacted. \" ( g ) The total amount of purchases and commitments authorized by the Secretary to be made pursuant to this section shall not exceed $7,750,000,000 outstanding at any one time.\". (b) The amendment made by subsection (a) becomes effective upon the date of enactment of this Act and shall remain in effect for a period of one year following such date of enactment, except that it shall remain in effect after the expiration of such period to fhe extent necessary (1) to honor commitments to purchase mortgages issued f)rior to the expiration of such period, and (2) to provide for the liquidation of assets and discharge of liabilities acquired or incurred prior to the expiration of such period. AMENDMENTS TO OTHER LAWS 12 u s e 1703. \"Historic struc- tures.\" 'Preservation. SEC. 4. (a) The National Housing Act is amended as follows: (1) The first sentence of section 2(a) of such Act is amended by inserting before the period at the end thereof the following: \" ; and for the purpose of financing the preservation of historic structures, and. as used in this section, the term 'historic structures' means resi- dential structures which are registered in the National Register of Historic Places or which are certified by the Secretary of the Interior to conform to National Register criteria; and the term 'preservation* means restoration or rehabilitation undertaken for such purposes as are approved by the Secretary in regulations issued by him, after con- sulting with the Secretary of the Interior\". 88 STAT. ] PUBLIC LAW 93-449-OCT. 18, 1974 1367 (2) Section 2(b) of such Act is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph: \"A loan financing the preservation of a historic structure shall— \"(1) involve an amount not exceeding $15,000 per family unit; and \" (2) have a maturity not exceeding fifteen years and thirty-two days.\". (b) Section 203 of the National Housing Act is amended by adding cooperative at the end thereof the following: _ m°o\"tgale''iniu''r-^' \" ( n ) ( l ) The Secretary is authorized to insure under this section ance. 12 u s e 1709. any mortgage meeting the requirements of subsection (b) of this section, except as modified by this subsection. To be eligible, the mort- gage shall involve a dwelling unit in a cooperative housing project which is covered by a blanket mortgage insured under this Act. The mortgage amount as determined under the other provisions of sub- section (b) of this section shall be reduced by an amount equal to the portion of the unpaid balance of the blanket mortgage covering the project which is attributable (as of the date the mortgage is accepted for insurance) to such unit. \"(2) For the purpose of this subsection— Definitions. \" ( A ) The terms 'home mortgage' and 'mortgage' include a first lien given (in accordance with the laws of the State where the property is located and accompanied by such security and other undertakings as may be required under regulations of the Secretary) to secure a loan made to finance the purchase of stock or membership in an nonprofit cooperative ownership housing corporation the permanent occupancy of the dwelling units of which is restricted to member's of such corporation, where the purchase of such stock or membership will entitle the purchaser to the permanent occupancy of one of such units. \" ( B ) The terms 'appraised value of the property', 'value of the property', and 'value' include the appraised value of a dwell- ing unit in a cooperative housing project of the type described in subparagraph (A) where the purchase of the stock or member- ship involved will entitle the purchaser to the permanent occu- pancy of that unit; and the term 'property' includes a dwelling unit in such a cooperative project. \" ( C ) The term 'mortgagor' includes a person or persons giv- ing a first lien (of the type describe in subparagraph ( A ) ) to secure a loan to finance the purchase of stock or membership in a cooperative housing corporation.\" (c) Section 10(b) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. ^^^TasTJcuriT^ 1430(b)), as amended, is amended by striking the dollar figure \"^^ as secun y. \"$40,000\" and inserting in lieu thereof \"$55,000 (except that with respect to dwellings in Alaska, Guam, and Hawaii the foregoing limitation may, by regulation of the Board, be increased by not to exceed 50 per centum)\". (d) Section 5(c) of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 1464(c)), as amended, is amended by adding in the nineteenth para- graph thereof after the phrase \"section 401 ( d ) \" the following phrase: \"or section 408 ( a ) \" . (e) Section 5 of Public Law 93-387 is amended to read: \"The Coun- ^'^'^P-JJ'}: 12 u s e 1904 cil shall report to the President, and through him to the Congress, on a note. quarterly basis and not later than thirty days after the close of each calendar quarter, concerning its activities, findings, and recommenda- tions with respect to the containment of inflation and the maintenance of a vigorous and prosperous peacetime economy.\". PUBLIC LAW 93-450-OCT. 18, 1974 1368 [88 STAT. FEDERAL RESERVE ACT A M E N D M E N T Time n o t e s , ad- vances. 12 u s e 347b. Interest rate. SEC. 5. Section 10(b) of the Federal Reserve Act is amended by add- ing the following at the end thereof: \"Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Federal Reserve bank, under rules and regulations prescribed by the Board of Governors of the Fed- eral Reserve System, may make advances to any member bank on its time notes having such maturities as the Board may prescribe and which are secured by mortgage loans covering a one-to-four family residence. Such advances shall bear interest at a rate equal to the lowest discount rate in effect at such Federal Reserve bank on the date of such note.\". Approved October 18^ 1974. Public Law 93-450 Octob sr 18, 1974 [ S . J. R e s . 251] An te, 12 p. 1166. u s e 635f note JOINT RESOLUTION To extend the authority of the Export-Import Bank of the United States. Resolved hy the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled^ That section 8 of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 is amended by striking out \"Octo- ber 15, 1974\" and inserting in lieu thereof \"November 30, 1974\": Provided^ however^ That the Bank shall not authorize any financial assistance to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics during the life of this resolution. Approved October 18, 1974. Public Law 93-451 October 18, 1974 [S. 283] Bridge port Indian C olony, Calif. Lands AN ACT To declare that the United States holds in trust for the Bridgeport Indian Colony certain lands in Mono County, California. Be it enacted hy the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled^ That all of the right, title, and interest of the United States in the following described public domain land located in Mono County, California, are hereby declared to be held by the United States in trust for the Bridgeport Indian Colony: The southeast quarter of the northeast quarter of section 28, township 5 north, range 25 east, Mount Diablo base and meridian, Mono County, California, containing forty acres more or less. Provided further^ That said parcel shall be subject to the easement to the Bridgeport Public Utility District for a sewer main. Approved October 18, 1974."
