"x"
"1" "89 STAT. 1124 PUBLIC LAW 94-200ŚDEC. 31, 1975 Public Law 94-200 94th Congress An Act Dec. 61, 1975 [S. 1281] Depository institutions, interest rates; National Commission on Electronic Fund Transfers, extension; home mortgage disclosure. 12 u s e 461 note. 12 u s e 461 note. rp^^ extend the authority for the flexible regulation of interest rates on deposits and share accounts in depository institutions, to extend the National Com- mission on Electronic Fund Transfers, and to provide for home mortgage disclosure. Be it enacted hy the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, TITLE IŚREGULATIOX OF I N T E R E S T RATES SEC. 101. Section 7 of the Act of September 21, 1966 (Public Law 89-597), is amended by striking out \"December 31,1975-' and inserting in lieu thereof \"March 1,1977*'. SEC. 102. (a) An interest rate differential for any category of deposits or accounts which is in effect on December 10, 1975, between (1) any bank (other than a savings bank) the deposits of which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and (2) any savings and loan, building and loan, or homestead association (includ- ing cooperative banks) the deposits or accounts of which are insured by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation or any mutual savings bank as defined in section 3(f) of the Federal Deposit Insur- ance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(j)) may not be eliminated or reduced unlessŚĢ (A) written notification is given by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to the Congress; and (B) the House of Representatives and the Senate approve, by concurrent resolution, the proposed elimination or reduction of the interest rate differential. (b) In the case of the elimination or reduction of any interest rate differential under subsection (a) with respect to any category of deposits or accounts between (1) any bank (other than a savings bank) the deposits of which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insur- ance Corporation and (2) any savings and loan, building and loan, or homestead association (including cooperative banks) the deposits or accounts of which are insured by the Federal Savings and Loan Insur- ance Corporation or any mutual savings bank as defined in section 3(f) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(f)), the maximum rate of interest which shall be established for such cate- gory of deposits for banks (other than savings banks) the deposits of which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be equal to the highest rate of interest which savings and loan associa- tions the deposits or accounts of which are insured by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation were permitted to charge for such category of deposits immediately prior to the elimination or reduction of such interest rate differential. TITLE IIŚELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFERS 12 u s e 2403. SEC. 201. Section 203(b) of title I I of the Act of October 28, 1974 (Public Law 93^95), is amended byŚ (1) striking out \"within one year of its findings and recommen- dations\" and inserting in lieu thereof \"within one year of the date PUBLIC LAW 94-200ŚDEC. 31, 1975 89 STAT. 1125 of the confirmation by the Senate of the Chairperson or the appointment by the President of an acting Chairperson\"; and (2) striking out \"not later than two years after the date of enactment of this Act\" and inserting in lieu thereof \"not later than two years after the date of the confirmation by the Senate of the Chairperson or the appointment by the President of an acting Chairperson\". TITLE IIIŚHOME MORTGAGE DISCLOSURE SHORT TITLE Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975. SEC. 301. This title may be cited as the \"Home Mortgage Disclosure 12 USC 2801 Act of 1975\". note- FINDINGS AND PURPOSES SEC. 302. (a) The Congress finds that some depository institutions 12 USC 2801. have sometimes contributed to the decline of certain geographic areas by their failure pursuant to their chartering responsibilities to provide adequate home financing to qualified applicants on reasonable terms and conditions. (b) The purpose of this title is to provide the citizens and public officials of the United States with sufficient information to enable them to determine whether depository institutions are filling their obliga- tions to serve the housing needs of the communities and neighborhoods in which they are located and to assist public officials in their determi- nation of the distribution of public sector investments in a manner designed to improve the private investment environment. (c) N^othing ill this title is intended to, nor shall it be construed to, encourage unsound lending practices or the allocation of credit. DEFINITIONS SEC. 303. For purposes of this titleŚ 12 USC 2802. (1) the term \"mortgage loan\" means a l6an which is secured by residential real property or a home improvement loan; (2) the term \"depository institution\" means any commercial bank, savings bank, savings and loan association, building and loan association, or homestead association (including cooperative banks) or credit union which makes federally related mortgage loans as determined by the Board; (3) the term \"Board\" means the Board of Governors of the Fed- eral Reserve System; and (4) the term \"Secretary\" means the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. M A I N T E N A N C E OF RECORDS AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE SEC. 304. (a)(1) Each depository institution which has a home 12 USC 2803., office or branch office located within a standard metropolitan statistical area, as defined by the Office of Management and Budget shall compile and make available, in accordance with regulations of the Board, to the public for inspection and copying at the home office, and at at least one branch office within each standard metropolitan statistical area in which the depository institution has an office the number and total dollar amount of mortgage loans which were (A) originated, or (B) purchased by that institution during each fiscal year (beginning with the last full fiscal year of that institution which immediately preceded the effective date of this title). 57-194 O - 77 - 75 89 STAT. 1126 12 u s e 1707. 42 u s e 1471. 38 u s e 1801 et seq. PUBLIC LAW 94-200ŚDEC. 3 1 , 1975 (2) The information required to be maintained and made available under p a r a g r a p h (1) shall also be itemized in order to clearly and conspicuously disclose the following: ( A ) T h e number and dollar amount for each item referred to in p a r a g r a p h ( 1 ) , by census tracts, where readily available at a reasonable cost, as determined by the Board, otherwise by Z I P code, for borrowers, under mortgage loans secured by property located within t h a t standard metropolitan statistical area, ( B ) The number and dollar amount for each item referred to in p a r a g r a p h (1) for all such mortgage loans which are secured by property located outside t h a t standard metropolitan statistical area. F o r the purpose of this p a r a g r a p h , a depository institution which maintains offices in moie than one standard metropolitan statistical area shall be required to make the information required by this par- a g r a p h available at any such office only to the extent t h a t such infor- mation relates to mortgage loans which were originated or purchased by an office of t h a t depository institution located in t h e standard met- ropolitan statistical area in which the office m a k i n g such information available is located. (b) A n y item of information relating to mortgage loans required to be maintained under subsection (a) shall be further itemized in order to disclose for each such itemŚ (1) the number and dollar amount of mortgage loans which are insured under title I I of the National Housing Act or under title V of the Housing Act of 1949 or which are guaranteed under chapter 37 of title 38, United States Code; (2) the number and dollar amount of mortgage loans made to mortgagors who did not, at the time of execution of the mortgage, intend to reside in the property securing the mortgage loan; and (3) the number and dollar amount of home improvement loans. (c) A n y information required to be compiled and made available under this section shall be maintained and made available for a period of five years after the close of the first year d u r i n g which such informa- tion is required to be maintained and made available. ENFORCEMENT Regulations. 12 u s e 2804. eompliance. 12 u s e 1818. SEC. 305. (a) T h e B o a r d shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this title. These regulations may contain such classifications, differentiations, or other provisions, and may provide for such adjustments and exceptions for any class of transactions, as in the judgment of the Board are necessary and proper to effectuate the purposes of this title, and prevent circumven- tion or evasion thereof, or to facilitate compliance therewith. (b) Compliance with the requirements imposed under this title shall be enforced underŚ (1) section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, in the case ofŚ ( A ) national banks, by the Comptroller of the Currency; ( B ) member banks of the Federal Reserve System, other than national banks, by the B o a r d ; (C) banks insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Cor- poration (other t h a n members of t h e Federal Reserve Sys- tem) and mutual savings banks as defined in section 3 ( f ) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(f)) and PUBLIC LAW 94-200ŚDEC. 31, 1975 89 STAT. 1127 any other depository institution not referred to in this para- graph or paragraph (2) or (3) of this subsection, by the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; (2) section 5(d) of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933, sec- 12 USC 1464. tion 407 of the National Housing Act, and sections 6(i) and 17 12 USC 1730. of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act, by the Federal Home Loan 12 USC 1426, Bank Board (acting directly or through the Federal Savings and ^'^^'^Ģ Loan Insurance Corporation), in the case of any institution sub- ject to any of those provisions; and (3) the Federal Credit Union Act, by the Administrator of 12 USC 1751. the National Credit Union Administration with respect to any credit union, (c) For the purpose of the exercise by any agency referred to in Violation, subsection (b) of its powers under any Act referred to in that sub- section, a violation of any requirement imposed under this title shall be deemed to be a violation of a requirement imposed under that Act. In addition to its powers under any provision of law specifically referred to in subsection (b), each of the agencies referred to in that subsection may exercise, for the purpose of enforcing compliance with any requirement imposed under this title, any other authority con- ferred on it by law. RELATION TO STATE LAWS SEC. 306. (a) This title does not annul, alter, or affect, or exempt 12 USC 2805. any State chartered depository institution subject to the provisions of this title from complying with the laws of any State or subdivision thereof with respect to public disclosure and recordkeeping by depositor institutions, except to the extent that those laws are incon- sistent with any provision of this title, and then only to the extent of the inconsistency. The Board is authorized to determine whether such inconsistencies exist. The Board may not determine that any such law is inconsistent with any provision of this title if the Board determines that such law requires the maintenance of records w4th greater geographic or other detail than is required under this title, or that such law otherwise provides greater disclosure than is required under this title. (b) The Board may by regulation exempt from the requirements of this title any State chartered depository institution within any State or subdivision thereof if it determines that, under the law of such State or subdivision, that institution is subject to requirements substantially similar to those imposed under this title, and that such law contains adequate provisions for enforcement. Notwithstanding any other pro- vision of this subsection, compliance with the requirements imposed under this subsection shall be enforced underŚ (1) Section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act in the 12 USC 1818. case of national banks, by the Comptroller of the Currency; and (2) Section o(d) of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933 in 12 USC 1464. the case of any institution subject to that provision, by the Fed- eral Home Loan Bank Board. RESEARCH AXD IMPROVED METHODS SEC. 307. (a) (1) The Federal Home Loan Bank Board, with the 12 USC 2806. assistance of the Secretary, the Director of the Bureau of the Census, the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Fed- eral Eeserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and 89 STAT. 1128 Appropriation authorization. Recommendation to congressional committees. PUBLIC LAW 94-200ŚDEC. 31, 1975 such other persons as the Federal Home Loan Bank Board deems appropriate, shall develop, or assist in the improvement of, methods of matching addresses and census tracts to facilitate compliance by depository institutions in as economical a manner as possible with the requirements of this title. (2) There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this subsection. (3) The Federal Home Loan Bank Board is authorized to utilize, contract with, act through, or compensate any person or agency in order to carry out this subsection. (b) The Federal Home Loan Bank Board shall recommend to the Committee on Banking, Currency and Housing of the House of Repre- sentatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Ajffairs of the Senate such additional legislation as the Federal Home Loan Bank Board deems appropriate to carry out the purpose of this title. STUDY 12 use 2807. Report to Congress. SEC. 308. (a) The Board, in consultation with the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, is authorized and directed to carry out a study to determine the feasibility and usefulness of requiring depository institutions located outside standard metropolitan statisti- cal areas, as defined by the Office of Management and Budget, to make disclosures comparable to those required by this title, (b) A report on the study under this section shall be transmitted to the Congress not later than three years after the date of enactment of this title. EFFECTIVE DATE 12 use 2808. SEC. 309. This title shall take effect on the one hundred and eightieth day beginning after the date of its enactment. Any depository institu- tion which has total assets as of its last full fiscal year of $10,000,000 or less is exempt from the provisions of this title. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY 12 use 2809, SEC. 310. The authority granted by this title shall expire four years after its effective date. Approved December 31, 1975. LEGISLATIVE HISTORY: HOUSE REPORTS: No. 94-561 accompanying H.R. 10024 (Comm. on Banking, Currency and Housing) and No. 94-726 (Comm. of eonference). SENATE REPORTS: No. 94-187 (Comm. on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs) and No. 94-553 (eomm. of Conference). CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 121 (1975): July 26, Sept. 4, considered and passed Senate. Oct. 30, 31, considered and passed House, amended, in lieu of H.R. 10024. Dec. 15, Senate agreed to conference report. Dec. 18, House agreed to conference report. WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 12, No. 1: Jan. 1, Presidential statement."
