"x"
"1" "PUBLIC LAW 100-704ŚNOV. 19, 1988 102 STAT. 4677 Public Law 100- Ģ704 100th Congress An Act To improve the procedures and remedies for the prevention of insider trading, and for other purposes. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. This Act may be cited as the \"Insider Trading and Securities Fraud Enforcement Act of 1988\". SEC. 2. FINDINGS. The Congress finds thatŚ (1) the rules and r^ulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 govern- ing trading while in possession of material, nonpublic informa- tion are, as required by such Act, necessary and appropriate in the public interest and for the protection of investors; (2) the Commission has, within the limits of accepted adminis- trative and judicial construction of such rules and regulations, enforced such rules and regulations vigorously, effectively, and fairly; and (3) nonetheless, additional methods are appropriate to deter and prosecute violations of such rules and regulations. Nov. 19, 1988 [H.R. 5133] Insider Trading and Securities Fraud Enforcement Act of 1988. 15 u s e 78a note. 15 u s e 78u-l note. SEC. 3. CIVIL PENALTIES OF CONTROLLING PERSONS FOR ILLEGAL INSIDER TRADING BY CONTROLLED PERSONS. (a) AMENDMENT.ŚThe Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.) is amendedŚ (1) in section 21(d)Ś (A) by striking out paragraph (2); and (B) by redesignating subsection (dXD as subsection (d); and (2) by inserting after section 21 the following new section: 15 u s e 78u. \" C I V I L PENALTIES \"SEC. 21A. (a) AUTHORITY T O IMPOSE CIVIL PENALTIES.Ś \"(1) JUDICIAL ACTIONS BY COMMISSION AUTHORIZED.ŚWhenever it shall appear to the Commission that any person has violated any provision of this title or the rules or regulations thereunder by purchasing or selling a security while in possession of mate- rial, nonpublic information in, or has violated any such provi- sion by communicating such information in connection with, a transaction on or through the facilities of a national securities exchange or from or through a broker or dealer, and which is not part of a public offering by an issuer of securities other than standardized options, the (CommissionŚ \"(A) may bring an action in a United States district court to seek, and the court shall have jurisdiction to impose, a 15 u s e 78u-l. eourts, U.S. 102 STAT. 4678 Courts, u s . Ģ PUBLIC LAW 100-704ŚNOV. 19, 1988 civil penally to be paid by the person who committed such violation; and \"(B) may, subject to subsection (bXD, bring an action in a United States district court to seek, and the court shall have jurisdiction to impose, a civil penalty to be paid by a person who, at the time of the violation, directly or indirectly controlled the person who committed such violation. \"(2) AMOUNT OF PRNALTT FOR PERSON WHO COMMITTED VIOLA- TION.Ś^The amount of the penalty which may be imposed on the person who committed such violation shall be determined by the court in light of the facts and circumstances, but shall not exceed three tunes the profit gained or loss avoided as a result of such unlawfid purchase, sale, or communication. \"(3) AMOUNT OF PENALTY FOR CONTROLLING PERSON.ŚThe amount of tlie penalty which may be imposed on any person who, at the time of the violation, directly or indirectly con- trolled the person who committed such violation, shall be deter- mined by the court in light of the facts and circumstances, but shall not exceed the greater of $1,000,000, or three times the amount of the profit gained or loss avoided as a result of such controlled person's violation. If such controlled person's viola- tion was a violation by communication, the profit gained or loss avoided as a result of the violation shall, for purposes of this paragraph only, be deemed to be limited to the profit gained or loss avoided by the person or persons to whom the controlled person directed such communication. \"OS) LfliaTATIONS ON LlABIUTY.Ś \"(1) LIABILITY OF CONTROLLING PERSONS.ŚNo controlling person shall be subject to a penalty under subsection (aXlXB) unless the Ck)mmission establishes thatŚ \"(A) such controlling person knew or recklessly dis- r^arded the fact that such controlled person was likely to engage in the act or acts constituting the violation and failed to take appropriate steps to prevent such act or acts before they occurred; or \"(B) such controlling i)erson knowingly or recklessly failed to establish, maintain, or enforce any policy or proce- dure required under section 15(f) of this title or section 204A of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and such failure substantially contributed to or permitted the occur- rence of the act or acts constituting the violation. \"(2) ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS ON LIABILITY.ŚNo person shall be subject to a penalty under subsection (a) solely by reason of emplojdng another person who is subject to a penalty under such subsection, unless such emplojdng person is liable as a controlling person under paragraph (1) of this subsection. Sec- tion 20(a) of this title shall not apply to actions under subsection (a) of this section. '(c) AUTHORITY OF COMMISSION.ŚThe (Dommission, by such rules, regulations, and orders as it considers necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, may exempt, in whole or in part, either unconditionally or upon specific terms and conditions, any person or transaction or class of persons or trans- actions from this section. \"(d) PROCEDURES FOR Ck)LLEcnoN.Ś PUBLIC LAW 100-704ŚNOV. 19, 1988 102 STAT. 4679 \"CD PAYMENT OF PENALTY TO TREASUBY.ŚA penalty imposed under this section shall (subject to subsection (e)) be payable into the Treasury of the United States. \"(2) COLLECTION OF PENALTIES.ŚIf a person upon whom such a penalty is imposed shall fail to pay such penalty within the time prescribed in the court's order, the Commission may refer the matter to the Attorney General who shall recover such penalty by action in the appropriate United States district court. \"(3) REMEDY NOT EXCLUSIVE.Ś^The actions authorized by this section may be brought in addition to any other actions that the Commission or the Attorney General are entitled to bring. \"(4) JURISDICTION AND VENUE.ŚFor purposes of section 27 of this title, actions under this section shall be actions to enforce a liability or a duty created by this title. \"(5) STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.ŚNo action may be brought under this section more than 5 years after the date of the purchase or ^ e . This section shall not be construed to bsur or Umit in any manner any action by the Commission or the Attorney General under any other provision of this title, nor shall it bar or limit in any manner any action to recover penalties, or to seek any other order r^arding penalties, imposed in an action commenced within 5 years of such transaction. \"(e) AUTHORITY To AWARD BOUNTIES TO INFORMANTS.ŚNotwith- standing the provisions of subsection (dXD. there shall be paid from amounts imposed as a penalty under this section and recovered by the Commission or the Attorney (General, such sums, not to exceed 10 percent of such amounts, as the Commission deems appropriate, to the person or persons who provide information leading to the imposition of such penalty. Any determinations under this subsec- tion, including whether, to whom, or in what amount to make payments, shall be in the sole discretion of the Commission, except that no such payment shall be made to any member, officer, or employee of any appropriate regulatoiy agency, the Department of Justice, or a self-r^ulatory organization. Any such determination shall be final and not subject to judicial review. \"(f) DEFINITION.ŚFor purposes of this section, 'profit gained' or 'loss avoided' is the difference between the purchase or sale price of t^e security and the value of that security as measured by the trading price of the security a reasonable period after public dissemination of the nonpublic information.\", (b) AMENDMENTS CONCERNING SUPERVISION.Ś (1) BROKERS AND DEALERS.ŚSection 15 of the Securities Ex- change Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o) is amended by adding at the end tiiereof the following new subsection: \"(f) Every registered broker or dealer shall establish, maintain. Classified and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed, information. taking into consideration the nature of such broker's or dealer's business, to prevent the misuse in violation of this title, or the rules or regulations thereunder, of material, nonpublic information by such broker or dealer or any person associated with such broker or dealer. The Commission, as it deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, shall adopt rules or regulations to require specific policies or procedures reasonably designed to prevent misuse in violation of this title (or the rules or regulations thereunder) of material, nonpublic information.\". 19-194 OŚ91-Part 5 22 : QL 3 102 STAT. 4680 PUBLIC LAW 100-704ŚNOV. 19, 1988 (2) iNVEsniENT ADVBEBS.ŚThe Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-l et seq.) is amended by adding after section 204 the following new section: \"PBEVENnON OF MISUSE OF NONPUBUC INFORMATION 15 use 80b-4a. 15 use 78u-i \" \"SBC. 204A. Eveiy investment adviser subject to section 204 of this title shall establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed, taking into consideration the nature of such investment adviser's business, to prevent the misuse in violation of this Act or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the rules or r^ulations thereunder, of material, nonpublic information by such investment adviser or any person associated with such investment adviser. The Commission, as it deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, shall adopt rules or r^ulations to require specific policies or proce- dures reasonably designed to prevent misuse in violation of this Act or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (or the rules or regulations thereunder) of material, nonpublic information.\". (c) COMMISSION RECX)MMBNDATIONS FOR ADDITIONAL CIVIL PENALTY AUTHORITY REQUIRED.ŚThe Securities and Exchange Commission shall, within 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, submit to each House of the 0)ngress any recommendations the Commis- sion considers appropriate with respect to the extension of the Commission's authority to seek civil penalties or impose administra- tive fines for violations other than those described in section 21A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (as added by this section). SEC. 4. INCREASES IN CRIMINAL PENALTIES. Section 32(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78ff(a)) is amendedŚ (1) by striking \"$100,000\" and inserting \"$1,000,000\"; (2) by striking \"five years\" and inserting \"10 years\"; (3) by striking \"is an exchange\" and inserting \"is a person other than a natural person\"; and (4) by striking out \"$500,000\" and inserting \"$2,500,000\". S E C 5. LIABILITY TO CONTEMPORANEOUS TRADERS FOR INSIDER TRADING. The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is amended by inserting after section 20 the following new section: \"LIABILITY TO CONTEMPORANEOUS TRADERS FOR INSIDER TRADING eiassified i'i^TTS?*^^^\" 15 use 78t-i. \"SEC. 20A. (a) PRIVATE RIGHTS OF ACTION BASED ON CONTEMPORA- NEOUS TRADING.ŚAny person who violates any provision of this title Qj. ^jjg rules or regulations thereunder by purchasing or selling a security while in possession of material, nonpublic information shall be liable in an action in any court of competent jurisdiction to any person who, contemporaneously with the purchase or sale of securi- ties that is the subject of such violation, has purchased (where such violation is based on a sale of securities) or sold (where such violation is based on a purchase of securities) securities of the same class. \"(b) LIMITATIONS ON LIABILITY.Ś \"(1) CONTEMPORANEOUS TRADING ACTIONS LIMITED TO PROFIT GAINED OR LOSS AVOIDED,ŚThe total amount of damages im- posed under subsection (a) shall not exceed the profit gained or PUBLIC LAW 100-704ŚNOV. 19, 1988 102 STAT. 4681 loss avoided in the transaction or transactions that are the subject of the violation. \"(2) OFFSETTING DISGORGEMENTS AGAINST LIABILITY.ŚThe total amount of damages imposed against any person under subsec- tion (a) shall be diminished by the amounts, if any, that such person may be required to di^orge, pursuant to a court order obtained at the instance of the Commission, in a proceeding brought under section 21(d) of this title relating to the same transaction or transactions. \"(3) CoNTROLUNG PERSON LIABILITY.ŚNo person shall be liable under this section solely by reason of employing another person who is liable under this section, but the liability of a controlling person under this section shall be subject to section 20(a) of this title. \"(4) STATUTE OF UMITATIONS.ŚNo action may be brought under this section more than 5 years after the date of the last transaction that is the subject of the violation. \"(c) JOINT AND SEVERAL LIABILITY FOR COMMUNICATING.ŚAny Classified person who violates any provision of this title or the rules or information. regulations thereunder by communicating material, nonpublic information shall be jointly and severally liable under subsection (a) with, and to the same extent as, any person or persons liable under subsection (a) to whom the communication was directed. \"(d) AUTHORITY NOT TO RESTRICT OTHER EXPRESS OR IMPUED RIGHTS OF ACTION.ŚNothing in this section shall be construed to limit or condition the right of any person to bring an action to enforce a requirement of this title or the availability of any cause of action implied from a provision of this title. \"(e) PROVISIONS NOT TO AFFECT PUBUC PROSECUTIONS.ŚThis sec- tion shall not be construed to bar or limit in any manner any action by the Commission or the Attorney General imder any other provi- sion of this title, nor shall it bar or limit in any manner any action to recover penalties, or to seek any other order regarding penalties.\". SEC. 6. INVESTIGATORY AUTHORITIES. ASSISTANCE TO FOREIGN SECURITIES (a) DEFINITION OF FOREIGN SECURITIES AUTHORITY.ŚSection 3(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)) is amended by adding at the end thereof the following: \"(50) The term 'foreign securities authority* means any for- eign government, or any governmental body or regulatory organization empowered by a foreign government to administer or enforce its laws as they relate to securities matters.\". (b) AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE ASSISTANCE TO FOREIGN SECURITIES AUTHORITIES.ŚSection 21(a) of such Act (15 U.S.C. 78u(a)) is amendedŚ (1) by redesignating subsection (a) as subsection (aXD; and (2) by adding at the end thereof the following: \"(2) On request from a foreign securities authority, the Commis- sion may provide assistance in accordance with this paragraph if the requesting authority states that the requesting authority is conduct- ing an investigation which it deems nec^sary to determine whether any person has violated, is violating, or is about to violate any laws or rules relating to securities matters that the requesting authority administers or enforces. The Commission may, in its discretion, conduct such investigation as the Commission deems necessary to 102 STAT. 4682 PUBLIC LAW 100-704ŚNOV. 19, 1988 collect information and evidence pertinent to the request for assist- ance. Such assistŻuice may be provided without r ^ a r d to whether the facts stated in the request would also constitute a violation of the laws of the United States. In deciding whether to provide such assistance, the Commission shall consider whether (A) the request- ing authority has agreed to provide reciprocal assistance in securi- ties matters to the Commission; and (B) compliance with the request would prejudice the public interest of the United States.\". 15 u s e 78b note. SEC. 7. SECURITIES LAWS STUDY. (a) FINDINGS.ŚThe Congress finds thatŚ (1) recent disclosures of securities fraud and insider trading have caused public concern about the adequacy of Feder^ securities laws, rules, and regulations; (2) Federal securities laws, rules, and regulations have not undergone a comprehensive and exhaustive review since the advent of the modem intemationed, institutionalized securities market; (3) since that review, the volume of securities transactions and the nature of the securities industry have changed dramati- cally; and (4) there is an important national interest in maintaining fair and orderly securities trading, assuring the fairness of securi- ties transactions and markets and protecting investors. (b) STUDY AND INVESTIGATION REQUIRED.Ś (1) GENERAL REQUIREMENT.Ś^The Securities and Exchange Commission shall, subject to the availability of funds appro- priated pursuant to subsection (d), make a study and investiga- tion of the adequacy of the Federal securities laws and rules and r^ulations thereunder for the protection of the public interest and the interests of investors. (2) REQUIRED SUBJECTS FOR STUDY AND INVESTIGATION.ŚSuch study and investigation shall include an analysis ofŚ (A) the extent of improper trading while in possession of insider information, such as trading with advance knowl- edge of tender offers or forthcoming announcements of material financial information; (B) the adequacy of surveillance methods and tech- nologies of brokers, dealers, and self-regulatory organiza- tions; (C) the adequacy of cooperation between the Federal, State, and foreign enforcement authorities concerning secu- rities laws enforcement; and (D) impediments to the fairness and orderliness of the securities markets and to improvements in the breadth and depth of the capital available to the securities markets, and additional methods to promote those objectives. (3) CONDUCT OF STUDY AND INVESTIGATION.ŚIn conducting the study and investigation required by this section, the CommissionŚ (A) may exercise any existing authority to gather information, including all power and authority the Commis- sion would have if such investigation were being conducted pursuant to section 21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; (B) may consult with and obtain such assistance and information from other agencies in the executive and legis- PUBLIC LAW 100-704ŚNOV. 19, 1988 102 STAT. 4683 lative branches of the Government (including the Depart- ment of Justice) as is necessary to enable the Commission to carry out this section; (C) may appoint, without regard to the civil service laws, rules, and regulations, such personnel as the Commission deems advisable to carry out such study and investigation and to fix their respective rates of compensation without regard to such laws, rules, and regulations, but no such rate shall exceed the rate payable pursuant to section 5314 of title 5, United States Code; and (D) may, on a reimbursable basis, use the services of personnel detailed to the Commission from any Federal agency. (4) SUPPORT FROM OTHER AGENCIES.Ś(A) The head of any Federal agencyŚ (i) may detail employees to the Commission for the pur- poses of this section; and (ii) shall provide to the Commission such information as it requires for the performance of its functions under this section, consistent with applicable law. (B) The Comptroller General and the Director of the Office of Technology Assessment are authorized to assist the Commission in the performance of its functions under this section. (c) REPORTS AND INFORMATION TO CONGRESS.Ś (1) GENERAL REPORT.ŚThe Commission shall report to the Congress on the results of its study and investigation within 18 months after the date funds to carry out this section are appropriated under subsection (d). Such report shall include the Commission's recommendations, including such recommenda- tions for legislation as the Commission deems advisable. (2) INTERIM INFORMATION TO CONGRESS.ŚThe Commission shall keep the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Hous- ing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate, and the members thereof, fully informed on the progress of, and any impediments to completing, the study and investigation required by this section. (d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.ŚThere are authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 to carry out the study and investigation required by this section. (e) DEFINITIONS.ŚAs used in this sectionŚ (1) the term \"Commission\" means the Securities and Ex- change Commission; and (2) the term \"Federal securities laws\" has the meaning given the term securities laws by section 3(aX47) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(aX47)). SEC. 8. COOPERATION WITH FOREIGN AUTHORITIES NATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS IN ENFORCEMENT. AND INTER- Section 35 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is amended by 15 use 78kk. adding at the end thereof the following new subsection: \"(c) Funds appropriated pursuant to this section are authorized to be expendedŚ \"(1) for official reception and representation expenses, not to exceed $10,000 per year; and \"(2) for the purpose of maintaining membership in and contributing to the operating expenses of the International 102 STAT. 4684 PUBLIC LAW 100-704ŚNOV. 19, 1988 Oi^anization of Securities Commissions, not to exceed $10,000 per year.\". 15 u s e 78o note. SEC. 9. EFFECTIVE DATE. The amendments made by this Act, except for section 6, shall not apply to any actions occurring before the date of enactment of this Act. Approved November 19, 1988. LEGISLATIVE HISTORYŚH.R. 5133: HOUSE REPORTS: No. 100-910 (Comm. on Energy and Commerce). CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 134 (1988): Sept. 13, 14, considered and passed House. Oct. 21, considered and pŻissed Senate."
