"x"
"1" "PUBLIC LAW 101-429ŚOCT. 15, 1990 Public Law 101-429 101st Congress 104 STAT. 931 An Act To amend the FederaQ securities laws in order to provide additional enforcement remedies for violations of those laws and to eliminate abuses in transactions in penny stocks, and for other purposes. Q ^ ^^ ^^^^ ' 1^^\" \"\"^' J Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, Securities SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS; EFFECTIVE DATE. Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock (a) SHORT TITLE.ŚThis Act may be cited as the \"Securities Reform Act of Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990\". ^^ (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.- _ Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents; effective dates. TITLE IŚAMENDMENTS TO THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 Sec. 101. Authority of a court to impose money penalties and to prohibit persons from serving as officers and directors. Sec. 102. Cease-and-desist authority. TITLE IIŚAMENDMENTS TO THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Sec. 201. Enforcement of title. Sec. 202. Civil remedies in administrative proceedings. Sec. 203. Cease-and-desist authority. Sec. 204. Procedural rules for cease-and-desist proceedings. Sec. 205. Conforming amendments to section 15B. Sec. 206. Signature guarantees. fn^Sent companies. Fraud. 15 USC 78a note. TITLE IIIŚAMENDMENTS TO THE INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940 Sec. 301. Civil remedies in administrative proceedings. Sec. 302. Money penalties in civil actions. TITLE IVŚAMENDMENTS TO THE INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940 Sec. 401. Civil remedies in administrative proceedings. Sec. 402. Money penalties in civil actions. Sec. 403. Conforming amendment to section 214. Sec. Sec. Sec. Sec. Sec. Sec. Sec. Sec. Sec. Sec. 501. 502. 503. 504. 505. 506. 507. 508. 509. 510. TITLE VŚPENNY STOCK REFORM Short title. Findings. Definition of penny stock. Expansion of section 15(b) sanction authority with respect to penny stocks. Requirements for brokers and dealers of penny stocks. Development of automated quotation systems for penny stocks. Voidability of contracts in violation of section 15(cX2). Restrictions on blank check offerings. Broker/dealer disciplinary history. Review of regulatory structures and procedures. (c) EFFECTIVE DATES.Ś 15 USC 77g note. (1) IN GENERAL.ŚExcept as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3), the amendments made by this Act shall be effective upon enactment. (2) CIVIL PENALTIES.Ś (A) I N GENERAL.ŚNo civil penalty may be imposed pursu- ant to the amendments made by this Act on the basis of conduct occurring before the date of enactment of this Act. 49-139 O - 90 (429) 104 STAT. 932 PUBLIC LAW 101-429ŚOCT. 15, 1990 (B) ACCOUNTING AND DISGORGEMENT.ŚSubparagraph (A) shall not operate to preclude the Securities and Exchange Commission from ordering an accounting or disgorgement pursuant to the amendments made by this Act. (3) SPECIAL RULES FOR TITLE V.Ś (A) SECTIONS 503 AND 504.ŚExcept as provided in subparagraph (C), sections 503 and 504 shall be effective 12 months after the date of enactment of this Act or upon the issuance of final regulations initially implementing such section, whichever is earlier. (B) SECTIONS 505 AND 508.ŚExcept as provided in subparagraph (C), sections 505 and 508 shall be effective 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act or upon the issuance of final regulations initially implementing such sections, whichever is earlier. (C) COMMENCEMENT OF RULEMAKING.ŚNot later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Commis- sion shall commence rulemaking proceedings to implement sections 503, 505, and 508. TITLE IŚAMENDMENTS TO THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 SEC. 101. AUTHORITY OF A COURT TO IMPOSE MONEY PENALTIES AND TO PROHIBIT PERSONS FROM SERVING AS OFFICERS AND DIREC- TORS. Section 20 of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. lit) is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new subsections: \"(d) MONEY PENALTIES IN CIVIL ACTIONS.Ś \"(1) AUTHORITY OF COMMISSION.ŚWhenever it shall appear to the Commission that any person has violated any provision of this title, the rules or regulations thereunder, or a ceeise-and- desist order entered by the Commission pursuant to section 8A of this title, other than by committing a violation subject to a penalty pursuant to section 21A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Commission may bring an action in a United States district court to seek, and the court shall have jurisdiction to impose, upon a proper showing, a civil penalty to be paid by the person who committed such violation. \"(2) AMOUNT OF PENALTY.Ś \"(A) FIRST TIER.ŚThe amount of the penalty shall be determined by the court in light of the facts and cir- cumstances. For each violation, the amount of the penalty shall not exceed the greater of (i) $5,000 for a natural person or $50,000 for any other person, or (ii) the gross amount of pecuniary gain to such defendant as a result of the violation. \"(B) SECOND TIER.ŚNotwithstanding subparagraph (A), the amount of penalty for each such violation shall not exceed the greater of (i) $50,000 for a natural person or $250,000 for any other person, or (ii) the gross amount of pecuniary ggiin to such defendant as a result of the viola- tion, if the violation described in paragraph (1) involved fraud, deceit, manipulation, or deliberate or reckless dis- regard of a regulatory requirement. PUBLIC LAW 101-429ŚOCT. 15, 1990 104 STAT. 933 \"(C) THIRD TIER.ŚNotwithstanding subparagraphs (A) and (B), the amount of penalty for each such violation shall not exceed the greater of (i) $100,000 for a natural person or $500,000 for any other person, or (ii) the gross amount of pecuniary gain to such defendant as a result of the viola- tion, ifŚ \"(I) the violation described in paragraph (1) involved fraud, deceit, manipulation, or deliberate or reckless disregard of a regulatory requirement; and \"(II) such violation directly or indirectly resulted in substantial losses or created a significant risk of substantial losses to other persons. \"(3) PROCEDURES FOR COLLECTION.Ś \"(A) PAYMENT OF PENALTY TO TREASURY.ŚA penalty im- posed under this section shall be payable into the Treasury of the United States. \"(B) COLLECTION OF PENALTIES.ŚIf a person upon whom such a penalty is imposed shall fail to pay such penalty within the time prescribed in the court's order, the Commis- sion may refer the matter to the Attorney General who shall recover such penalty by action in the appropriate United States district court. \"(C) REMEDY NOT EXCLUSIVE.ŚThe actions authorized by this subsection may be brought in addition to any other action that the Commission or the Attorney General is entitled to bring. \"(D) JURISDICTION AND VENUE.ŚFor purposes of section 22 of this title, actions under this section shall be actions to enforce a liability or a duty created by this title. \"(4) SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO A VIOLATION OF A CEASE- AND-DESIST ORDER.ŚIn an action to enforce a cease-and-desist order entered by the Commission pursuant to section 8A, each separate violation of such order shall be a separate offense, except that in the case of a violation through a continuing failure to comply with such an order, each day of the failure to comply with the order shall be deemed a separate offense. \"(e) AUTHORITY OF A COURT T O PROHIBIT PERSONS FROM SERVING AS OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS.ŚIn any proceeding under subsection (b), the court may prohibit, conditionally or unconditionally, and permanently or for such period of time as it shall determine, any person who violated section 17(aXl) of this title from acting as an officer or director of any issuer that has a class of securities reg- istered pursuant to section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or that is required to file reports pursuant to section 15(d) of such Act if the person's conduct demonstrates substantial unfitness to serve as an officer or director of any such issuer.\". SEC. 102. CEASE-AND-DESIST AUTHORITY. ^ The Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 8 the following: \"CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS \"SEC. 8 A . (a) AUTHORITY OF THE COMMISSION.ŚIf the Commission finds, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that any person is violating, has violated, or is about to violate any provision of this title, or any rule or regulation thereunder, the Commission may 15 use 77h-i. 104 STAT. 934 PUBLIC LAW 101-429ŚOCT. 15, 1990 publish its findings and enter an order requiring such person, and any other person that is, was, or would be a cause of the violation, due to an act or omission the person knew or should have known would contribute to such violation, to cease and desist from commit- ting or causing such violation and any future violation of the same provision, rule, or regulation. Such order may, in addition to requir- ing a person to cease and desist from committing or causing a violation, require such person to comply, or to take steps to effect compliance, with such provision, rule, or regulation, upon such terms and conditions and within such time as the Commission may specify in such order. Any such order may, as the Commission deems appropriate, require future compliance or steps to effect future compliance, either permanently or for such period of time as the Commission may specify, with such provision, rule, or regulation with respect to any security, any issuer, or any other person. \"(b) HEARING.ŚThe notice instituting proceedings pursuant to subsection (a) shall fix a hearing date not earlier than 30 days nor later than 60 days after service of the notice unless an earlier or a later date is set by the Commission with the consent of any respond- ent so served. \"(c) TEMPORARY ORDER.Ś , \"(1) IN GENERAL.ŚWhenever the Commission determines that the alleged violation or threatened violation specified in the notice instituting proceedings pursuant to subsection (a), or the continuation thereof, is likely to result in significant dissipation or conversion of assets, significant harm to investors, or substantial harm to the public interest, including, but not lim- ited to, losses to the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, prior to the completion of the proceedings, the Commission may enter a temporary order requiring the respondent to cease and desist from the violation or threatened violation and to take such action to prevent the violation or threatened violation and to prevent dissipation or conversion of assets, significant harm to investors, or substantial harm to the public interest as the Commission deems appropriate pending completion of such proceeding. Such an order shall be entered only after notice and opportunity for a hearing, unless the Commission determines that notice and hearing prior to entry would be impracticable or contrary to the public interest. A temporary order shall become effective upon service upon the respondent and, unless set aside, limited, or suspended by the Commission or a court of com- petent jurisdiction, shall remain effective and enforceable pend- ing the completion of the proceedings. (2) APPUCABILITY.ŚThis subsection shall apply only to a respondent that acts, or, at the time of the alleged misconduct acted, as a broker, dealer, investment adviser, investment com- pany, municipal securities dealer, government securities broker, government securities dealer, or transfer agent, or is, or was at the time of the alleged misconduct, an associated person of, or a person seeking to become associated with, any of the foregoing. \"(d) REVIEW OF TEMPORARY ORDERS.Ś \"(1) COMMISSION REVIEW.ŚAt any time after the respondent has been served with a temporary cease-and-desist order pursu- ant to subsection (c), the respondent may apply to the Commis- sion to have the order set aside, limited, or suspended. If the respondent has been served with a temporary cease-and-desist order entered without a prior Commission hearing, the respond- PUBLIC LAW 101-429ŚOCT. 15, 1990 ent may, within 10 days after the date on which the order was served, request a hearing on such application and the Commis- sion shall hold a hearing and render a decision on such applica- tion at the earliest possible time. \"(2) JUDICIAL REVIEW.ŚWithinŚ \"(A) 10 days after the date the respondent was served with a temporary cease-and-desist order entered with a prior Commission hearing, or \"(B) 10 days after the Commission renders a decision on an application and hearing under paragraph (1), with re- spect to any temporary cease-and-desist order entered with- out a prior Commission hearing, the respondent may apply to the United States district court for the district in which the respondent resides or has its principal place of business, or for the District of Columbia, for an order setting aside, limiting, or suspending the effectiveness or enforcement of the order, and the court shall have jurisdiction to enter such an order. A respondent served with a temporary cease-and-desist order entered without a prior Commission hear- ing may not apply to the court except after hearing and decision by the Commission on the respondent's application under para- graph (1) of this subsection. \"(3) No AUTOMATIC STAY OF TEMPORARY ORDER.ŚThe commencement of proceedings under paragraph (2) of this subsection shall not, unless specifically ordered by the court, operate as a stay of the Commission's order. \"(4) EXCLUSIVE REVIEW.ŚSection 9(a) of this title shall not apply to a temporary order entered pursuant to this section. \"(e) AUTHORITY TO ENTER AN ORDER REQUIRING AN ACCOUNTING AND DISGORGEMENT.ŚIn any cease-and-desist proceeding under subsection (a), the Commission may enter an order requiring accounting and disgorgement, including reasonable interest. The Commission is authorized to adopt rules, regulations, and orders concerning payments to investors, rates of interest, periods of ac- crual, and such other matters as it deems appropriate to implement this subsection.\". TITLE IIŚAMENDMENTS TO THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 SEC. 201. ENFORCEMENT OF TITLE. Section 21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78u(d)) is amendedŚ (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (d)(1); (2) by inserting after subsection (d)(1) the following new para- graphs: \"(2) AUTHORITY OF A COURT TO PROHIBIT PERSONS FROM SERVING AS OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS.ŚIn any proceeding under paragraph (1) of this subsection, the court may prohibit, conditionally or un- conditionally, and permanently or for such period of time as it shall determine, any person who violated section 10(b) of this title or the rules or regulations thereunder from acting as an officer or director of any issuer that has a class of securities registered pursuant to section 12 of this title or that is required to file reports pursuant to section 15(d) of this title if the person's conduct demonstrates 104 STAT. 935 104 STAT. 936 PUBLIC LAW 101-429ŚOCT. 15, 1990 substantial unfitness to serve as an officer or director of any such issuer. Courts. \"(3) MONEY PENALTIES IN CIVIL ACTIONS.Ś \"(A) AUTHORITY OF COMMISSION.ŚWhenever it shall appear to the Commission that any person has violated any provision of this title, the rules or regulations thereunder, or a cease-and- desist order entered by the Commission pursuant to section 21C of this title, other than by committing a violation subject to a penalty pursuant to section 21A, the Commission may bring an action in a United States district court to seek, and the court shall have jurisdiction to impose, upon a proper showing, a civil penalty to be paid by the person who committed such violation. \"(B) AMOUNT OF PENALTY.Ś \"(i) FIRST TIER.ŚThe amount of the penalty shall be determined by the court in light of the facts and cir- cumstances. For each violation, the amount of the penalty shall not exceed the greater of (I) $5,000 for a natural person or $50,000 for any other person, or (II) the gross amount of pecuniary gain to such defendant as a result of the violation, \"(ii) SECOND TIER.ŚNotwithstanding clause (i), the amount of penalty for each such violation shall not exceed the greater of (I) $50,000 for a natural person or $250,000 for any other person, or (II) the gross amount of pecuniary gain to such defendant as a result of the violation, if the viola- tion described in subparagraph (A) involved fraud, deceit, manipulation, or deliberate or reckless disregard of a regu- latory requirement. \"(iii) THIRD TIER.ŚNotwithstanding clauses (i) and (ii), the amount of penalty for each such violation shall not exceed the greater of (I) $100,000 for a natural person or $500,000 for any other person, or (II) the gross amount of pecuniary gain to such defendant as a result of the violation, ifŚ \"(Żia) the violation described in subparagraph (A) involved fraud, deceit, manipulation, or deliberate or reckless disregard of a regulatory requirement; and \"(bb) such violation directly or indirectly resulted in substantial losses or created a significant risk of substantial losses to other persons. \"(C) PROCEDURES FOR COLLECTION.Ś \"(i) PAYMENT OF PENALTY TO TREASURY.ŚA penalty im- posed under this section shall be payable into the Treasury of the United States. \"(ii) COLLECTION OF PENALTIES.ŚIf a person upon whom such a penalty is imposed shall fail to pay such penalty within the time prescribed in the court's order, the Commis- sion may refer the matter to the Attorney General who shall recover such penalty by action in the appropriate United States district court. \"(iii) REMEDY NOT EXCLUSIVE.ŚThe actions authorized by this pareigraph may be brought in addition to any other action that the Commission or the Attorney General is entitled to bring. \"(iv) JURISDICTION AND VENUE.ŚFor purposes of section 27 of this title, actions under this paragraph shall be ac- tions to enforce a liability or a duty created by this title. PUBLIC LAW 101-429ŚOCT. 15, 1990 104 STAT. 937 \"(D) SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO A VIOLATION OF A CEASE- AND-DESIST ORDER.ŚIn an action to enforce a cease-and-desist order entered by the Commission pursuant to section 21C, each separate violation of such order shall be a separate offense, except that in the case of a violation through a continuing failure to comply with the order, each day of the failure to comply shall be deemed a separate offense.\". SEC. 202. CIVIL REMEDIES IN ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS. (a) The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is amended by inserting after section 21A (15 U.S.C. 78u-l) the following: \"CIVIL REMEDIES IN ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS \"SEC. 21B. (a) COMMISSION AUTHORITY TO ASSESS MONEY PEN- ALTIES.ŚIn any proceeding instituted pursuant to sections 15(b)(4),' 15(b)(6), 15B, 15C, or 17A of this title against any person, the Commission or the appropriate regulatory agency may impose a civil penalty if it finds, on the record after notice and opportunity for hearing, that such personŚ \"(1) has willfully violated any provision of the Securities Act of 1933, the Investment Company Act of 1940, the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, or this title, or the rules or regulations thereunder, or the rules of the Municipal Securities Rule- making Board; \"(2) has willfully aided, abetted, counseled, commanded, in- duced, or procured such a violation by any other person; \"(3) has willfully made or caused to be made in any applica- tion for registration or report required to be filed with the Commission or with any other appropriate regulatory agency under this title, or in any proceeding before the Commission with respect to registration, any statement which was, at the time and in the light of the circumstances under which it was made, false or misleading with respect to any material fact, or has omitted to state in any such application or report any material fact which is required to be stated therein; or \"(4) has failed reasonably to supervise, within the meaning of section 15(b)(4)(E) of this title, with a view to preventing viola- tions of the provisions of such statutes, rules and regulations, another person who commits such a violation, if such other person is subject to his supervision; and that such penalty is in the public interest. \"(b) MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF PENALTY.Ś \"(1) FIRST TIER.ŚThe maximum amount of penalty for each act or omission described in subsection (a) shall be $5,000 for a natural person or $50,000 for any other person. \"(2) SECOND TIER.ŚNotwithstanding paragraph (1), the maxi- mum amount of penalty for each such act or omission shall be $50,000 for a natural person or $250,000 for any other person if the act or omission described in subsection (a) involved fraud, deceit, manipulation, or deliberate or reckless disregard of a regulatory requirement. \"(3) THIRD TIER.ŚNotwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2), the maximum amount of penalty for each such act or omission shall be $100,000 for a natural person or $500,000 for any other person ifŚ 15USC78U-2. 104 STAT. 938 PUBLIC LAW 101-429ŚOCT. 15, 1990 \"(A) the act or omission described in subsection (a) in- volved fraud, deceit, manipulation, or deliberate or reckless disregard of a regulatory requirement; and \"(B) such act or omission directly or indirectly resulted in substantial losses or created a significant risk of substantial losses to other persons or resulted in substantial pecuniary gain to the person who committed the act or omission, \"(c) DETERMINATION OF PUBUC INTEREST.ŚIn considering under this section whether a penalty is in the public interest, the Commis- sion or the appropriate regulatory agency may considerŚ \"(1) whether the act or omission for which such penalty is assessed involved fraud, deceit, manipulation, or deliberate or reckless disregard of a regulatory requirement; \"(2) the harm to other persons resulting either directly or indirectly from such act or omission; \"(3) the extent to which any person was unjustly enriched, taking into account any restitution made to persons injured by such behavior; \"(4) whether such person previously has been found by the (Dommission, another appropriate regulatory agency, or a self- regulatory organization to have violated the Federal securities laws. State securities laws, or the rules of a self-regulatory organization, has been enjoined by a court of competent jurisdic- tion from violations of such laws or rules, or has been convicted by a court of competent jurisdiction of violations of such laws or of any felony or misdemeanor described in section 15(bX4XB) of this title; \"(5) the need to deter such person and other persons from committing such acts or omissions; and \"(6) such other matters as justice may require. \"(d) EVIDENCE CONCERNING ABIUTY TO PAY.ŚIn any proceeding in which the Commission or the appropriate regulatory agency may impose a penalty under this section, a respondent may present evidence of the respondent's ability to pay such penalty. The Commission or the appropriate regulatory agency may, in its discre- tion, consider such evidence in determining whether such penalty is in the public interest. Such evidence may relate to the extent of such person's ability to continue in business and the coUectability of a penalty, taking into account any other claims of the United States or third parties upon such person's assets and the amount of such person's assets. \"(e) AUTHORITY TO ENTER AN ORDER REQUIRING AN ACCOUNTING AND DISGORGEMENT.ŚIn any proceeding in which the Commission or the appropriate regulatory Żigency may impose a pengilty under this section, the Commission or the appropriate regulatory agency may enter an order requiring accounting and disgorgement, includ- ing reasonable interest. The Commission is authorized to adopt rules, regulations, and orders concerning payments to investors, rates of interest, periods of accrual, and such other matters as it deems appropriate to implement this subsection.\". (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.ŚThe heading of section 21A of this title (15 U.S.C. 78u-l) is amended to read as follows: PUBLIC LAW 101-429ŚOCT. 15, 1990 104 STAT. 939 \"CIVIL PENALTIES FOR INSIDER TRADING\". SEC. 203. CEASE-AND-DESIST AUTHORITY. The Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 is amended by adding after section 21B (as added by section 202 of this Act) the following new section: \"CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS \"SEC. 21C. (a) AUTHORITY OF THE COMMISSION.ŚIf the Commission is use 78u-3. finds, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that any person is violating, has violated, or is about to violate any provision of this title, or any rule or regulation thereunder, the Commission may publish its findings and enter an order requiring such person, and any other person that is, was, or would be a cause of the violation, due to an act or omission the person knew or should have known would contribute to such violation, to cease and desist from commit- ting or causing such violation and any future violation of the same provision, rule, or regulation. Such order may, in addition to requir- ing a person to cease and desist from committing or causing a violation, require such person to comply, or to take steps to effect compliance, with such provision, rule, or regulation, upon such terms and conditions and within such time as the Commission may specify in such order. Any such order may, as the Commission deems appropriate, require future compliance or steps to effect future compliance, either permanently or for such period of time as the Commission may specify, with such provision, rule, or regulation with respect to any security, any issuer, or any other person. \"(b) HEARING.ŚThe notice instituting proceedings pursuant to subsection (a) shall fix a hearing date not earlier than 30 days nor later than 60 days after service of the notice unless an earlier or a later date is set by the Commission with the consent of any respond- ent so served. \"(c) TEMPORARY ORDER.Ś \"(1) IN GENERAL.ŚWhenever the Commission determines that the alleged violation or threatened violation specified in the notice instituting proceedings pursuant to subsection (a), or the continuation thereof, is likely to result in significant dissipation or conversion of assets, significant harm to investors, or substantial harm to the public interest, including, but not lim- ited to, losses to the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, prior to the completion of the proceedings, the Commission may enter a temporary order requiring the respondent to cease Żind desist from the violation or threatened violation and to take such action to prevent the violation or threatened violation and to prevent dissipation or conversion of assets, significant harm to investors, or substantial harm to the public interest as the Commission deems appropriate pending completion of such proceedings. Such an order shall be entered only after notice and opportunity for a hearing, unless the Commission deter- mines that notice and hearing prior to entry would be imprac- ticable or contrary to the public interest. A temporary order shall become effective upon service upon the respondent and, unless set aside, limited, or suspended by the Commission or a court of competent jurisdiction, shall remain effective and enforceable pending the completion of the proceedings. 104 STAT. 940 PUBLIC LAW 101-429ŚOCT. 15, 1990 \"(2) APPUCABIUTY.ŚThis subsection shall apply only to a respondent that acts, or, at the time of the alleged misconduct acted, as a broker, dealer, investment adviser, investment com- pany, municipal securities dealer, government securities broker, government securities dealer, or transfer agent, or is, or was at the time of the alleged misconduct, an Eissociated person of, or a person seeking to become associated with, any of the foregoing. \"(d) REVIEW OF TEMPORARY ORDERS.Ś \"(1) COMMISSION REVIEW.ŚAt any time after the respondent has been served with a temporary cease-and-desist order pursu- ant to subsection (c), the respondent may apply to the Commis- sion to have the order set aside, limited, or suspended. If the respondent has been feerved with a temporary cease-and-desist order entered without a prior Commission hearing, the respond- ent may, within 10 days after the date on which the order was served, request a hearing on such application and the Commis- sion shall hold a hearing Żind render a decision on such applica- tion at the earliest possible time. \"(2) JUDICIAL REVIEW.ŚWithinŚ \"(A) 10 days after the date the respondent was served with a temporary cease-and-desist order entered with a prior Commission hearing, or \"(B) 10 days after the Commission renders a decision on an application and hearing under paragraph (1), with rfe- spect to any temporary ceeise-and-desist order entered with- out a prior Commission hearing, the respondent may apply to the United States district court for the district in which the respondent resides or has its principal place of business, or for the District of Columbia, for an order setting aside, limiting, or suspending the effectiveness or enforcement of the order, and the court shall have jurisdiction to enter such an order. A respondent served with a temporary cease-and-desist order entered without a prior Commission hear- ing may not apply to the court except after hearing and decision by the Commission on the respondent's application under para- graph (1) of this subsection. \"(3) No AUTOMATIC STAY OF TEMPORARY ORDER.ŚThe commencement of proceedings under paragraph (2) of this subsection shall not, unless specifically ordered by the court, operate as a stay of the Commission's order. \"(4) EXCLUSIVE REVIEW.ŚSection 25 of this title shall not apply to a temporary order entered pursuant to this section. \"(e) AUTHORITY TO ENTER AN ORDER REQUIRING AN ACCOUNTING AND DISGORGEMENT.ŚIn any cease-and-desist proceeding under subsection (a), the Commission may enter an order requiring accounting and disgorgement, including reasonable interest. The Commission is authorized to adopt rules, regulations, and orders concerning payments to investors, rates of interest, periods of ac- crual, and such other matters as it deems appropriate to implement this subsection.\". SEC. 204. PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS. Regulations. Section 23 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78w) is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new subsec- tion: \"(d) CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEDURES.ŚWithin 1 year after the date of enactment of this subsection, the Commission shall establish PUBLIC LAW 101-429ŚOCT. 15, 1990 104 STAT. 941 regulations providing for the expeditious conduct of hearings and rendering of decisions under section 21C of this title, section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933, section 9(f) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, and section 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.\". SEC. 205. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 15B. Section 15B(c)(6XA) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-4(cX6)(A)) is amendedŚ (1) by striking \"and the nature\" and inserting \", the nature\"; and (2) by striking \"proposed action and\" and inserting \"proposed action, and whether the Commission is seeking a monetary penalty against such municipal securities dealer or such associ- ated person pursuant to section 21B of this title; and \". SEC. 206. SIGNATURE GUARANTEES. Section 17A(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 15 USC 78q-l. 78q-9(dX4)) is amended by adding at the end the following: \"(5) A registered transfer agent may not, directly or indirectly, engage in any activity in connection with the guarantee of a signa- ture of an endorser of a security, including the acceptance or rejection of such guarantee, in contravention of such rules and regulations as the Commission may prescribe as necessary or appro- priate in the public interest, for the protection of investors, to facilitate the equitable treatment of financial institutions which issue such guarantees, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of this title.\". TITLE IIIŚAMENDMENTS TO THE INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940 SEC. 301. CIVIL REMEDIES IN ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS. Section 9 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-9) is amendedŚ (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (g); (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new subsec- tions: \"(d) MONEY PENALTIES IN ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS.Ś \"(1) AUTHORITY OF COMMISSION.ŚIn any proceeding instituted pursuant to subsection (b) against any person, the Commission may impose a civil penalty if it finds, on the record after notice and opportunity for hearing, that such personŚ '(A) has willfully violated any provision of the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Invest- ment Advisers Act of 1940, or this title, or the rules or regulations thereunder; '(B) has willfully aided, abetted, counseled, commanded, induced, or procured such a violation by any other person; or \"(C) has willfully made or caused to be made in any registration statement, application, or report required to be filed with the Commission under this title, any statement which was, at the time and in the light of the circumstances under which it was made, false or misleading with respect 104 STAT. 942 PUBLIC LAW 101-429ŚOCT. 15, 1990 to any material fact, or has omitted to state in any such registration statement, application, or report any material fact which was required to be stated therein; and that such penalty is in the public interest. \"(2) MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF PENALTY.Ś \"(A) FIRST TIER.ŚThe maximum amount of penalty for each act or omission described in paragraph (1) shall be $5,000 for a natural person or $50,000 for any other person. \"(B) SECOND TIER.ŚNotwithstanding subparagraph (A), the maximum amount of penalty for each such act or omission shall be $50,000 for a natural person or $250,000 for any other person if the act or omission described in paragraph (1) involved fraud, deceit, manipulation, or delib- erate or reckless disregard of a regulatory requirement. \"(C) THIRD TIER.ŚNotwithstanding subparagraphs (A) and (B), the maximum amount of penalty for each such act or omission shall be $100,000 for a natural person or $500,000 for any other person ifŚ \"(i) the act or omission described in paragraph (1) involved fraud, deceit, manipulation, or deliberate or reckless disregard of a regulatory requirement; and \"(ii) such act or omission directly or indirectly re- sulted in substantial losses or created a significant risk of substantial losses to other persons or resulted in substantial pecuniary gain to the person who commit- ted the act or omission. \"(3) DETERMINATION OF PUBUC INTEREST.ŚIn considering under this section whether a penalty is in the public interest, the Commission may considerŚ \"(A) whether the act or omission for which such penalty is assessed involved fraud, deceit, manipulation, or delib- erate or reckless disregard of a regulatory requirement; \"(B) the harm to other persons resulting either directly or indirectly from such act or omission; \"(C) the extent to which any person was unjustly en- riched, taking into account any restitution made to persons injured by such behavior; \"(D) whether such person previously has been found by the Commission, another appropriate regulatory agency, or a self-regulatory organization to have violated the Federal securities laws, State securities laws, or the rules of a self- regulatory organization, has been enjoined by a court of competent jurisdiction from violations of such laws or rules, or has been convicted by a court of competent jurisdiction of violations of such laws or of any felony or misdemeanor described in section 203(e)(2) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940; \"(E) the need to deter such person and other persons from committing such acts or omissions; and \"(F) such other matters as justice may require. \"(4) EVIDENCE CONCERNING ABILITY TO PAY.ŚIn any proceed- ing in which the Commission may impose a penalty under this section, a respondent may present evidence of the respondent's ability to pay such penalty. The Commission may, in its discre- tion, consider such evidence in determining whether such pen- alty is in the public interest. Such evidence may relate to the extent of such person's ability to continue in business and the PUBLIC LAW 101-429ŚOCT. 15, 1990 104 STAT. 943 coUectability of a penalty, taking into account any other claims of the United States or third parties upon such person's assets and the amount of such person's assets. \"(e) AUTHORITY T O ENTER AN ORDER REQUIRING AN ACCOUNTING AND DISGORGEMENT.ŚIn any proceeding in which the Commission may impose a penalty under this section, the Commission may enter an order requiring accounting and disgorgement, including reason- able interest. The Commission is authorized to adopt rules, regula- tions, and orders concerning pajonents to investors, rates of interest, periods of accrual, and such other matters as it deems appropriate to implement this subsection. \"(f) CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS.Ś \"(1) AUTHORITY OF THE COMMISSION.ŚIf the Commission finds, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that any person is violating, has violated, or is about to violate any provision of this title, or any rule or regulation thereunder, the Commission may publish its findings and enter an order requiring such person, and any other person that is, was, or would be a cause of the violation, due to an act or omission the person knew or should have known would contribute to such violation, to cease and desist from committing or causing such violation and any future violation of the same provision, rule, or regulation. Such order may, in addition to requiring a person to cease and desist from committing or causing a violation, require such person to comply, or to take steps to effect compliance, with such provi- sion, rule, or regulation, upon such terms and conditions and within such time as the Commission may specify in such order. Any such order may, as the Commission deems appropriate, require future compliance or steps to effect future compliance, either permanently or for such period of time as the Commis- sion may specify, with such provision, rule, or regulation with respect to any security, any issuer, or any other person. ' (2) HEARING.ŚThe notice instituting proceedings pursuant to paragraph (1) shall fix a hearing date not earlier than 30 days nor later than 60 days after service of the notice unless an earlier or a later date is set by the (Dommission with the consent of any respondent so served. \"(3) TEMPORARY ORDER.Ś \"(A) IN GENERAL.ŚWhenever the Commission determines that the alleged violation or threatened violation specified in the notice instituting proceedings pursuant to paragraph (1), or the continuation thereof, is likely to result in signifi- cant dissipation or conversion of assets, significant harm to investors, or substantial harm to the public interest, includ- ing, but not limited to, losses to the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, prior to the completion of the proceeding, the Commission may enter a temporary order requiring the respondent to cease and desist from the viola- tion or threatened violation and to take such action to prevent the violation or threatened violation and to prevent dissipation or conversion of assets, significant harm to investors, or substantial harm to the public interest as the Commission deems appropriate pending completion of such proceedings. Such an order shall be entered only after notice and opportunity for a hearing, unless the Commis- sion, notwitl^tanding section 40(a) of this title, determines that notice and hearing prior to entry would be impractica- 104 STAT. 944 PUBLIC LAW 101-429ŚOCT. 15, 1990 ble or contrary to the public interest. A temporary order shall become effective upon service upon the respondent and, unless set aside, limited, or suspended by the Commis- sion or a court of competent jurisdiction, shall remain effective and enforceable pending the completion of the proceedings. \"(B) APPLICABILITY.ŚThis paragraph shall apply only to a respondent that acts, or, at the time of the alleged mis- conduct acted, as a broker, dealer, investment adviser, investment company, municipal securities dealer, govern- ment securities broker, government securities dealer, or transfer agent, or is, or was at the time of the alleged misconduct, an associated person of, or a person seeking to become associated with, any of the foregoing. \"(4) REVIEW OF TEMPORARY ORDERS.Ś \"(A) COMMISSION REVIEW.ŚAt any time after the respond- ent has been served with a temporary cease-and-desist order pursuant to paragraph (3), the respondent may apply to the Commission to have the order set aside, limited, or suspended. If the respondent has been served with a tem- porary cease-and-desist order entered without a prior Commission hearing, the respondent may, within 10 days after the date on which the order was served, request a hearing on such application and the Commission shall hold a hearing and render a decision on such application at the earliest possible time. \"(B) JUDICIAL REVIEW.ŚWithinŚ \"(i) 10 days after the date the respondent was served with a temporary cease-and-desist order entered with a prior Commission hearing, or \"(ii) 10 days after the Commission renders a decision on an application and hearing under subparagraph (A), with respect to any temporary cease-and-desist order entered without a prior Commission hearing, the respondent may apply to the United States district court for the district in which the respondent resides or has its principal place of business, or for the District of Colum- bia, for an order setting aside, limiting, or suspending the effectiveness or enforcement of the order, and the court shall have jurisdiction to enter such an order. A respondent served with a temporary cease-and-desist order entered without a prior Commission hearing may not apply to the court except after hearing and decision by the Commission on the respondent's application under subparagraph (A) of this paragraph. \"(C) N o AUTOMATIC STAY OF TEMPORARY ORDER.ŚThe commencement of proceedings under subparagraph (B) of this paragraph shall not, unless specifically ordered by the court, operate as a stay of the Commission's order. \"(D) EXCLUSIVE REVIEW.ŚSection 43 of this title shall not' apply to a temporary order entered pursuant to this section. \"(5) AUTHORITY TO ENTER AN ORDER REQUIRING AN ACCOUNT- ING AND DISGORGEMENT.ŚIn any cease-and-desist proceeding under subsection (fKD, the Commission may enter an order requiring accounting and disgorgement, including reasonable interest. The Commission is authorized to adopt rules, regula- tions, and orders concerning payments to investors, rates of PUBLIC LAW 101-429ŚOCT. 15, 1990 104 STAT. 945 interest, periods of accrual, and such other matters as it deems appropriate to implement this subsection.\"; and (3) in redesignated subsection (g), by striking \"subsections (a) through (c) o f . SEC. 302. MONEY PENALTIES IN CIVIL ACTIONS. Section 42 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a- 41) is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection: \"(e) MONEY PENALTIES IN CIVIL ACTIONS.Ś \"(1) AUTHORITY OF COMMISSION.ŚWhenever it shall appear to the Commission that any person hsis violated any provision of this title, the rules or regulations thereunder, or a cease-and- desist order entered by the Commission pursuant to section 9(f) of this title, the Commission may bring an action in a United States district court to seek, and the court shall have jurisdic- tion to impose, upon a proper showing, a civil penalty to be paid by the person who committed such violation. \"(2) AMOUNT OF PENALTY.Ś ^ \"(A) FIRST TIER.ŚThe eimount of the penalty shall be determined by the court in light of the facts and cir- cumstances. For each violation, the amount of the penalty shall not exceed the greater of (i) $5,000 for a natural person or $50,000 for any other person, or (ii) the gross amount of pecuniary gain to such defendant as a result of the violation. \"(B) SECOND TIER.ŚNotwithstanding subparagraph (A), the amount of penalty for each such violation shall not exceed the greater of (i) $50,000 for a naturgd person or $250,000 for any other person, or (ii) the gross Eimount of pecuniary gain to such defendant as a result of the viola- tion, if the violation described in parsigraph (1) involved fraud, deceit, msinipulation, or deliberate or reckless dis- regard of a regulatory requirement. \"(C) THIRD TIER.ŚNotwithstanding subparagraphs (A) and (B), the amount of penalty for each such violation shall not exceed the greater of (i) $100,000 for a natural person or $500,000 for any other person, or (ii) the gross amount of pecuniary gain to such defendant as a result of the viola- tion, ifŚ \"(I) the violation described in paragraph (1) involved fraud, deceit, manipulation, or deliberate or reckless disregard of a regulatory requirement; and \"(II) such violation directly or indirectly resulted in substantial losses or created a significant risk of substantial losses to other persons. \"(3) PROCEDURES FOR COLLECTION.Ś \"(A) PAYMENT OF PENALTY TO TREASURY.ŚA penalty im- lyi si' posed under this section shall be payable into the Treasury of the United States. \"(B) COLLECTION OF PENALTIES.ŚIf a person upon whom such a penalty is imposed shall fail to pay such penalty within the time prescribed in the court's order, the Commis- sion may refer the matter to the Attorney General who shall recover such penalty by action in the appropriate United States district court. 104 STAT. 946 PUBLIC LAW 101-429ŚOCT. 15, 1990 \"(C) REMEDY NOT EXCLUSIVE.ŚThe actions authorized by this subsection may be brought in addition to any other action that the Commission or the Attorney General is entitled to bring. \"(D) JURISDICTION AND VENUE.ŚFor purposes of section 44 of this title, actions under this paragraph shall be ac- tions to enforce a liability or a duty created by this title. \"(4) SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO A VIOLATION OF A CEASE- AND-DESIST ORDER.ŚIn an action to enforce a cease-and-desist order entered by the Commission pursuant to section 9(f), each separate violation of such order shall be a separate offense, except that in the case of a violation through a continuing failure to comply with the order, each day of the failure to comply shall be deemed a separate offense.\". TITLE IVŚAMENDMENTS TO THE INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940 SEC. 401. CIVIL REMEDIES IN ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS. Sectj'>r. 203 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b- 3) is <;inended by adding at the end thereof the following new subsections: \"(i) MONEY PENALTIES IN ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS.Ś \"(1) AUTHORITY OF COMMISSION.ŚIn any proceeding instituted pursuant to subsection (e) or (f) against any person, the Commis- sion may impose a civil penalty if it finds, on the record after notice and opportunity for hearing, that such personŚ \"(A) has willfully violated any provision of the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Invest- ment Company Act of 1940, or this title, or the rules or regulations thereunder; \"(B) has willfully aided, abetted, counseled, commanded, induced, or procured such a violation by any other person; \"(C) has willfully made or caused to be made in any application for registration or report required to be filed with the Commission under this title, or in any proceeding before the Commission with respect to registration, any statement which was, at the time and in the light of the circumstances under which it was made, false or misleading with respect to any material fact, or has omitted to state in any such application or report any material fact which was required to be stated therein; or ' (D) has failed reasonably to supervise, within the mean- ing of section 203(eX5) of this title, with a view to prevent- ing violations of the provisions of this title and the rules and regulations thereunder, another person who commits such a violation, if such other person is subject to his supervision; and that such penalty is in the public interest. \"(2) MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF PENALTY.Ś \"(A) FIRST TIER.ŚThe maximum amount of penalty for each act or omission described in paragraph (1) shall be $5,000 for a natural person or $50,000 for any other person. \"(B) SECOND TIER.ŚNotwithstanding subparagraph (A), the maximum amount of penalty for each such act or PUBLIC LAW 101-429ŚOCT. 15, 1990 omission shall be $50,000 for a natural person or $250,000 for any other person if the act or omission described in paragraph (1) involved fraud, deceit, manipulation, or delib- erate or reckless disregard of a regulatory requirement. \"(C) THIRD TIER.ŚNotwithstanding subparagraphs (A) and (B), the maximum amount of penalty for each such act or omission shall be $100,000 for a natural person or $500,000 for Einy other person ifŚ \"(i) the act or omission described in paragraph (1) - involved fraud, deceit, manipulation, or deliberate or reckless disregard of a regulatory requirement; and \"(ii) such act or omission directly or indirectly re- sulted in substantial losses or created a significant risk of substantial losses to other persons or resulted in substantial pecuniary gain to the person who commit- ted the act or omission. \"(3) DETERMINATION OP PUBUC INTEREST.ŚIn considering under this section whether a penalty is in the public interest, the Commission may considerŚ \"(A) whether the act or omission for which such penalty is assessed involved fraud, deceit, manipulation, or delib- erate or reckless disregard of a regulatory requirement; \"(B) the harm to other persons resulting either directly or indirectly from such act or omission; \"(C) the extent to which any person was unjustly en- riched, taking into account any restitution made to persons injured by such behavior; \"(D) whether such person previously has been found by the Commission, another appropriate regulatory agency, or a self-regulatory organization to have violated the Federal securities laws. State securities laws, or the rules of a self- regulatory organization, has been enjoined by a court of competent jurisdiction from violations of such laws or rules, or has been convicted by a court of competent jurisdiction of violations of such laws or of any felony or misdemeanor described in section 203(e)(2) of this title; \"(E) the need to deter such person Żind other persons from committing such acts or omissions; and \"(F) such other matters Żis justice may require. \"(4) EVIDENCE CONCERNING ABILITY TO PAY.ŚIn any proceed- ing in which the Commission may impose a penalty under this section, a respondent may present evidence of the respondent's ability to pay such penalty. The Commission may, in its discre- tion, consider such evidence in determining whether such pen- alty is in the public interest. Such evidence may relate to the extent of such person's ability to continue in business and the coUectability of a penalty, taking into account any other claims of the United States or third parties upon such person's assets and the amount of such person s sissets. \"(j) AUTHORITY T O ENTER AN ORDER REQUIRING AN ACCOUNTING AND DISGORGEMENT.ŚIn any proceeding in which the Commission may impose a penalty under this section, the Commission may enter an order requiring accounting and disgorgement, including reason- able interest. The Commission is authorized to adopt rules, regula- tions, and orders concerning payments to investors, rates of interest, periods of accrual, and such other matters as it deems appropriate to implement this subsection. 104 STAT. 947 104 STAT. 948 PUBLIC LAW 101-429ŚOCT. 15, 1990 \"(k) CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS.Ś \"(1) AUTHORITY OF THE COMMISSION.ŚIf the Commission finds, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that any person is violating, has violated, or is about to violate any provision of this title, or any rule or regulation thereunder, the Commission may publish its findings and enter an order requiring such person, and any other person that is, was, or would be a cause of the violation, due to an act or omission the person knew or should have known would contribute to such violation, to cease and desist from committing or causing such violation and any future violation of the same provision, rule, or regulation. Such order may, in addition to requiring a person to cease and desist from committing or causing a violation, require such person to comply, or to take steps to effect compliance, with such provi- sion, rule, or regulation, upon such terms and conditions and within such time as the Commission may specify in such order. Any such order may, as the Commission deems appropriate, require future compliance or steps to effect future compliance, either permanently or for such period of time as the Commis- sion may specify, with such provision, rule, or regulation with respect to any security, any issuer, or any other person. ' (2) HEARING.ŚThe notice instituting proceedings pursuant to paragraph (1) shall fix a hearing date not earlier than 30 days nor later than 60 days after service of the notice unless an earlier or a later date is set by the Commission with the consent of any respondent so served. \"(3) TEMPORARY ORDER.Ś \"(A) I N GENERAL.ŚWhenever the Commission determines that the alleged violation or threatened violation specified in the notice instituting proceedings pursuant to paragraph (1), or the continuation thereof, is likely to result in signifi- cant dissipation or conversion of assets, significant harm to investors, or substantial harm to the public interest, includ- ing, but not limited to, losses to the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, prior to the completion of the proceedings, the Commission may enter a temporary order requiring the respondent to cease and desist from the viola- tion or threatened violation and to take such action to prevent the violation or threatened violation and to prevent dissipation or conversion of assets, significant harm to investors, or substantial harm to the public interest as the Commission deems appropriate pending completion of such proceedings. Such an order shall be entered only after notice and opportunity for a hearing, unless the Commis- sion, notwithstanding section 211(c) of this title, determines that notice and hearing prior to entry would be impractica- ble or contrary to the public interest. A temporary order shall become effective upon service upon the respondent and, unless set aside, limited, or suspended by the Commis- sion or a court of competent jurisdiction, shall remain effective and enforceable pending the completion of the proceedings. \"(B) APPLICABILITY.ŚThis paragraph shall apply only to a respondent that acts, or, at the time of the alleged mis- .conduct acted, as a broker, dealer, investment adviser, investment company, municipal securities dealer, govern- ment securities broker, government securities dealer, or PUBLIC LAW 101-429ŚOCT. 15, 1990 104 STAT. 949 transfer agent, or is, or was at the time of the alleged misconduct, an associated person of, or a person seeking to become associated with, any of the foregoing. \"(4) REVIEW OF TEMPORARY ORDERS.Ś \"(A) COMMISSION REVIEW.ŚAt any time after the respond- ent has been served with a temporary cease-and-desist order pursugmt to paragraph (3), the respondent may apply to the Commission to have the order set aside, limited, or suspended. If the respondent has been served with a tem- porary cease-and-desist order entered without a prior Commission hearing, the respondent may, within 10 days after the date on which the order was served, request a hearing on such application and the Commission shall hold a hearing and render a decision on such application at the earliest possible time. \"(B) JUDICIAL REVIEW.ŚWithinŚ \"(i) 10 days after the date the respondent was served with a temporary cease-and-desist order entered with a prior Commission hearing, or \"(ii) 10 days after the Commission renders a decision on an application and hearing under subparagraph (A), with respect to any temporary cease-and-desist order entered without a prior Commission hearing, the respondent may apply to the United States district court for the district in which the respondent resides or has its principal place of business, or for the District of Colum- bia, for an order setting Eiside, limiting, or suspending the effectiveness or enforcement of the order, and the court shall have jurisdiction to enter such an order. A respondent served with a temporary cease-and-desist order entered without a prior Commission hearing may not apply to the court except after hearing and decision by the Commission on the respondent's application under subparagraph (A) of this paragraph. \"(C) N o AUTOMATIC STAY OF TEMPORARY ORDER.ŚThe commencement of proceedings under subparagraph (B) of this paragraph shall not, unless specifically ordered by the court, operate as a stay of the Commission's order. \"(D) EXCLUSIVE REVIEW.ŚSection 213 of this title shall not apply to a temporary order entered pursuant to this section. \"(5) AUTHORITY TO ENTER AN ORDER REQUIRING AN ACCOUNT- ING AND DISGORGEMENT.ŚIn any cease-and-desist proceeding under paragraph (1), the Commission may enter an order requiring accounting and disgorgement, including reasonable interest. The Commission is authorized to adopt rules, regula- tions, and orders concerning payments to investors, rates of interest, periods of accrual, and such other matters as it deems appropriate to implement this subsection.\". SEC. 402. MONEY PENALTIES IN CIVIL ACTIONS. Section 209 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b- 9) is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection: \"(e) MONEY PENALTIES IN CIVIL ACTIONS.Ś \"(1) AUTHORITY OF COMMISSION.ŚWhenever it shall appear to the Commission that any person has violated any provision of 104 STAT. 950 PUBLIC LAW 101-429ŚOCT. 15, 1990 this title, the rules or regulations thereunder, or a cease-and- desist order entered by the Commission pursuant to section 203(k) of this title, the Commission may bring an action in a United States district court to seek, and the court shall have jurisdiction to impose, upon a proper showing, a civil penalty to be paid by the person who committed such violation. \"(2) AMOUNT OF PENALTY.Ś \"(A) FIRST TIER.ŚThe amount of the penalty shall be determined by the court in light of the facts and cir- cumstances. For each violation, the amount of the penalty shall not exceed the greater of (i) $5,000 for a natural person or $50,000 for any other person, or (ii) the gross amount of pecuniary gain to such defendant as a result of the violation. \"(B) SECOND TIER.ŚNotwithstanding subparagraph (A), the amount of penalty for each such violation shall not exceed the greater of (i) $50,000 for a natural person or $250,000 for any other person, or (ii) the gross amount of pecuniary gain to such defendant as a result of the viola- tion, if the violation described in paragraph (1) involved fraud, deceit, manipulation, or deliberate or reckless dis- regard of a regulatory requirement. \"(C) THIRD TIER.ŚNotwithstanding subparagraphs (A) and (B), the amount of penalty for each such violation shall not exceed the greater of (i) $100,000 for a natural person or $500,000 for any other person, or (ii) the gross amount of pecuniary gain to such defendant as a result of the viola- tion, ifŚ \"(I) the violation described in paragraph (1) involved fraud, deceit, manipulation, or deliberate or reckless disregard of a regulatory requirement; and \"(II) such violation directly or indirectly resulted in substantial losses or created a significant risk of substantial losses to other persons. \"(3) PROCEDURES FOR COLLECTION.Ś \"(A) PAYMENT OF PENALTY TO TREASURY.ŚA penalty im- posed under this section shall be payable into the Treasury of the United States. \"(B) COLLECTION OF PENALTIES.ŚIf a person upon whom such a penalty is imposed shall fail to pay such penalty within the time prescribed in the court's order, the Commis- sion may refer the matter to the Attorney General who shall recover such penalty by action in the appropriate United States district court. \"(C) REMEDY NOT EXCLUSIVE.ŚThe actions authorized by this subsection may be brought in addition to any other action that the Commission or the Attorney General is entitled to bring, \"(D) JURISDICTION AND VENUE.ŚFor purposes of section 214 of this title, actions under this paragraph shall be actions to enforce a liability or a duty created by this title. \"(4) SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO A VIOLATION OF A CEASE- AND-DESIST ORDER.ŚIn an action to enforce a cease-and-desist order entered by the Commission pursuant to section 203(k), each separate violation of such order shall be a separate offense, except that in the case of a violation through a continuing PUBLIC LAW 101-429ŚOCT. 15, 1990 104 STAT. 951 failure to comply with the order, each day of the failure to comply shall be deemed a separate offense.\". SEC. 403. CONFORMING AMENDMENT TO SECTION 214. Section 214 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b- 14) is amendedŚ (1) by inserting after \"all suits in equity\" the following: \"and actions at law brought to enforce any liability or duty created by, or\"; and (2) by inserting after \"Any suit or action\" the following: \"to enforce any liability or duty created by, or\". TITLE VŚPENNY STOCK REFORM SEC. 501. SHORT TITLE. ?e?o7m^i░ctf 1990. 15 USC 78a note. This title may be cited as the \"Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990\". SEC. 502. FINDINGS. The Congress finds the following: (1) The maintenance of an honest and healthy primary and secondary market for securities offerings is essential to enhanc- ing long-term capital formation and economic growth and providing legitimate investment opportunities for individuals and institutions. (2) Protecting investors in new securities is a critical compo- nent in the maintenance of an honest and healthy market for such securities. (3) Protecting issuers of new securities and promoting the capital formation process on behalf of small companies are fundamental concerns in maintaining a strong economy and viable trading markets. (4) Unscrupulous market practices and market participants have pervaded the \"penny stock\" market with an overwhelming amount of fraud and abuse. (5) Although the Securities and Exchange Commission, State securities regulators, and securities self-regulators have made efforts to curb these abusive and harmful practices, the penny stock market still lacks an adequate and sufficient regulatory structure, particularly in comparison to the structure for overseeing trading in National Market System securities. (6) Investors in the penny stock market suffer from a serious lack of adequate information concerning price and volume of penny stock transactions, the nature of this market, and the specific securities in which they are investing. (7) Current practices do not adequately regulate the role of \"promoters\" and \"consultants\" in the penny stock market, and many professionals who have been banned from the securities markets have ended up in promoter and consultant roles, contributing substantially to fraudulent and abusive schemes. (8) The present regulatory environment has permitted the ascendancy of the use of particular market practices, such as \"reverse mergers\" with shell corporations and \"blank check\" offerings, which are used to facilitate manipulation schemes and harm investors. 15 USC 78o note. 104 STAT. 952 PUBLIC LAW 101-429ŚOCT. 15, 1990 (9) In light of the substantial and continuing problems in the penny stock markets, additional legislative measures are nec- essary and appropriate. SEC. 503. DEFINITION OF PENNY STOCK. Regulations. Section 3(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)) is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph: \"(51)(A) The term 'penny stock' means any equity security other than a security that isŚ \"(i) registered or approved for registration and traded on a national securities exchange that meets such criteria as the Commission shall prescribe by rule or regulation for purposes of this paragraph; \"(ii) authorized for quotation on an automated quotation system sponsored by a registered securities association, if such system (I) was established and in operation before January 1,1990, and (II) meets such criteria as the Commis- sion shall prescribe by rule or regulation for purposes of this paragraph; \"(iii) issued by an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940; \"(iv) excluded, on the basis of exceeding a minimum price, net tangible assets of the issuer, or other relevant criteria, from the definition of such term by rule or regula- tion which the Commission shall prescribe for purposes of this paragraph; or \"(v) exempted, in whole or in part, conditionally or un- conditionally, from the definition of such term by rule, regulation, or order prescribed by the Commission. \"(B) The Commission may, by rule, regulation, or order, designate any equity security or class of equity securities de- scribed in clause (i) or (ii) of subparagraph (A) as within the meaning of the term 'penny stock' if such security or class of securities is traded other than on a national securities exchange or through an automated quotation system described in clause (ii) of subparagraph (A). \"(C) In exercising its authority under this paragraph to pre- scribe rules, regulations, and orders, the Commission shall determine that such rule, regulation, or order is consistent with the public interest and the protection of investors.\". SEC. 504. EXPANSION OF SECTION 15(b) SANCTION AUTHORITY WITH RE- SPECT TO PENNY STOCKS. (a) AMENDMENT.ŚSection 15(bX6) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 780(b)(6)) is amended to read as follows: \"(6XA) With respect to any person who is associated, who is seeking to become associated, or, at the time of the alleged mis- conduct, who was associated or was seeking to become associated with a broker or dealer, or any person participating, or, at the time of the alleged misconduct, who was participating, in an offering of any penny stock, the Commission, by order, shall censure, place limitations on the activities or functions of such person, or suspend for a period not exceeding 12 months, or bar such person from being associated with a broker or dealer, or from participating in an offering of penny stock, if the Commission finds, on the record after notice and opportunity for a hearing, that such censure, placing of PUBLIC LAW 101-429ŚOCT. 15, 1990 104 STAT. 953 limitations, suspension, or bar is in the public interest and that such personŚ \"(i) has committed or omitted any act or omission enumerated in subparagraph (A), (D), or (E) of paragraph (4) of this subsec- tion; \"(ii) has been convicted of any offense specified in subpara- graph (B) of such paragraph (4) within 10 years of the commencement of the proceedings under this paragraph; or \"(iii) is enjoined from any action, conduct, or practice speci- fied in subparagraph (C) of such paragraph (4). \"(B) It shall be unlawfulŚ \"(i) for any person as to whom an order under subparagraph (A) is in effect, without the consent of the Commission, willfully to become, or to be, associated with a broker or dealer in contravention of such order, or to participate in an offering of penny stock in contravention of such order; \"(ii) for any broker or dealer to permit such a person, without the consent of the Commission, to become or remain, a person Eissociated with the broker or dealer in contravention of such order, if such broker or dealer knew, or in the exercise of reasonable care should have known, of such order; or \"(iii) for any broker or dealer to permit such a person, without the consent of the Commission, to participate in an offering of penny stock in contravention of such order, if such broker or dealer knew, or in the exercise of reasonable care should have known, of such order and of such participation. \"(C) For purposes of this paragraph, the term 'person participat- ing in an offering of penny stock includes any person acting as any promoter, finder, consultant, agent, or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer, or issuer for purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the purchase or sale of any penny stock. The Commission may, by rule or regulation, define such term to include other activities, and may, by rule, regulation, or order, exempt any person or class of persons, in whole or in part, conditionally or unconditionally, from such term.\". (b) RECOMMENDATIONS.ŚWithin 6 months gifter the date of enact- 15 USC 78o note, ment of this Act, the Securities and Exchange Commission shall submit to each House of the Congress such recommendations as the Commission considers appropriate with respect to further revision of section 15(bX6) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o(bX6)). In preparing such recommendations, the Commission shall consider the desirability and effect of expanding the applicabil- ity of such section to any promoter, finder, consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer, or issuer for purposes of the issuance of or trading in, or inducing or attempting to induce the purchase or sale of, any security (and not just penny stock). SEC. 505. REQUIREMENTS FOR BROKERS AND DEALERS OF PENNY STOCKS. Section 15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o) is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection: \"(g) REQUIREMENTS FOR TRANSACTIONS IN PENNY STOCKS.Ś -^ \"(1) IN GENERAL.ŚNo broker or dealer shall make use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce to effect any transaction in, or to induce or attempt to induce 104 STAT. 954 PUBLIC LAW 101-429ŚOCT. 15, 1990 the purchase or sale of, any penny stock by any customer except in accordance with the requirements of this subsection and the rules and regulations prescribed under this subsection. \"(2) RISK DISCLOSURE WITH RESPECT TO PENNY STOCKS.ŚPrior to effecting any transaction in any penny stock, a broker or dealer shall give the customer a risk disclosure document thatŚ \"(A) contains a description of the nature and level of risk in the market for penny stocks in both public offerings and secondary trading; \"(B) contains a description of the broker's or dealer's duties to the customer and of the rights and remedies available to the customer with respect to violations of such duties or other requirements of Federal securities laws; \"(C) contains a brief, clear, narrative description of a dealer market, including 'bid' and 'ask' prices for penny stocks and the significance of the spread between the bid and ask prices; \"(D) contains the toll free telephone number for inquiries on disciplinary actions established pursuant to section 15A(i) of this title; \"(E) defines significant terms used in the disclosure docu- ment or in the conduct of trading in penny stocks; and \"(F) contains such other information, and is in such form (including language, type size, and format), as the Commis- sion shall require by rule or regulation. \"(3) COMMISSION RULES RELATING TO DISCLOSURE.ŚThe Ck)mmission shall adopt rules setting forth additional standards for the disclosure by brokers and dealers to customers of information concerning transactions in penny stocks. Such rulesŚ \"(A) shall require brokers and dealers to disclose to each customer, prior to effecting any transaction in, and at the time of confirming any transaction with respect to any penny stock, in accordance with such procedures and meth- ods as the C!ommission may require consistent with the public interest and the protection of investorsŚ \"(i) the bid and ask prices for penny stock, or such other information as the Commission may, by rule, require to provide customers with more useful and reliable information relating to the price of such stock; \"(ii) the number of shares to which such bid and ask prices apply, or other comparable information relating to the depth and liquidity of the market for such stock; and \"(iii) the amount and a description of any compensa- tion that the broker or dealer and the associated person thereof will receive or has received in connection with such transaction; \"(B) shall require brokers and dealers to provide, to each customer whose account with the broker or dealer contains penny stocks, a monthly statement indicating the market value of the penny stocks in that account or indicating that the market value of such stock cannot be determined be- cause of the unavailability of firm quotes; and \"(C) may, as the Commission finds necessary or appro- priate in the public interest or for the protection of inves- tors, require brokers and dealers to disclose to customers PUBLIC LAW 101-429ŚOCT. 15, 1990 104 STAT. 955 additional information concerning transactions in penny stocks. \"(4) EXEMPTIONS.ŚThe Commission, as it determines consist- ent with the public interest and the protection of investors, may by rule, regulation, or order exempt in whole or in part, condi- tionally or unconditionally, any person or class of persons, or any transaction or class of transactions, from the requirements of this subsection. Such exemptions shall include an exemption for brokers and dealers based on the minimal percentage of the broker's or dealer's commissions, commission-equivalents, and markups received from transactions in penny stocks. \"(5) REGULATIONS.ŚIt shall be unlawful for any person to violate such rules and regulations as the Commission shall prescribe in the public interest or for the protection of investors or to maintain fair and orderly marketsŚ \"(A) as necessary or appropriate to carry out this subsec- tion; or \"(B) as reasonably designed to prevent fraudulent, decep- tive, or manipulative acts and practices with respect to penny stocks.'. SEC. 506. DEVELOPMENT OF AUTOMATED QUOTATION SYSTEMS FOR PENNY STOCKS. The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is amended by inserting after section 17A the following new section: \" A U T O M A T E D QUOTATION SYSTEMS FOR PENNY STOCKS \"SEC. 17B. (a) FINDINGS.ŚThe Congress finds thatŚ 15 USC 78q-2. \"(1) the market for penny stocks suffers from a lack of reliable and accurate quotation and last sale information avail- able to investors and regulators; \"(2) it is in the public interest and appropriate for the protec- tion of investors and the maintenance of fair and orderly mar- kets to improve significantly the information available to bro- kers, dealers, investors, and regulators with respect to quota- tions for and transactions in penny stocks; and \"(3) a fully implemented automated quotation system for penny stocks would meet the information needs of investors and market participants Żind would add visibility and regulatory Żmd surveillance data to that market. \"(b) MANDATE TO FACIUTATE THE EISTABLISHMENT OF AUTOMATED QUOTATION SYSTEMS.Ś \"(1) I N GENERAL.ŚThe Commission shall facilitate the wide- spread dissemination of reliable and accurate last sale and quotation information with respect to penny stocks in accord- ance with the findings set forth in subsection (a), with a view toward establishing, at the earliest feasible time, one or more automated quotation systems that will collect and disseminate information regarding all penny stocks. \"(2) CHARACTERISTICS OF SYSTEMS.ŚEach such automated quotation system shallŚ \"(A) be operated by a registered securities gissociation or a national securities exchange in accordeince with such rules as the Commission and these entities shall prescribe; \"Ci \"(B) collect and disseminate quotation and transaction Ģ' information; 104 STAT. 956 ^ PUBLIC LAW 101-429ŚOCT. 15, 1990 \"(C) except as provided in subsection (c), provide bid and ask quotations of participating brokers or dealers, or com- parably accurate and reliable pricing information, which shall constitute firm bids or offers for at least such mini- mum numbers of shares or minimum dollar amounts as the Commission and the registered securities association or national securities exchange shall require; and \"(D) provide for the reporting of the volume of penny stock transactions, including last sale reporting, when the volume reaches appropriate levels that the Commission shall specify by rule or order. \"(c) ExEMPnvE AUTHORITY.ŚThe Commission may, by rule or order, grant such exemptions, in whole or in part, conditionally or unconditionally, to any penny stock or class of penny stocks from the requirements of subsection (b) as the Commission determines to be consistent with the public interest, the protection of investors, and the maintenance of fair and orderly markets. \"(d) COMMISSION REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.ŚThe Commission shall, in each of the first 5 annual reports (under section 23(bXl) of this title) submitted more than 12 months after the date of enact- ment of this section, include a description of the status of the penny stock automated quotation system or systems required by subsection (b). Such description shall includeŚ \"(1) a review of the development, implementation, and progress of the project, including achievement of significant milestones and current project schedule; and \"(2) a review of the activities of registered securities associa- tions and national securities exchanges in the development of the system.\". SEC. 507. VOIDABILITY OF CONTRACTS IN VIOLATION OF SECTION 15(c)(2). Section 29(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78cc(b)) is amendedŚ (1) in clause (A), by striking \"paragraph (2) or (3)\" and insert- ing \"paragraph (3)\"; (2) in clause (B), by striking \"paragraph (1)\" and inserting \"paragraph (1) or (2)\"; and (3) by adding at the end thereof the following new sentence: \"The Commission may, in a rule or regulation prescribed pursu- ant to such paragraph (2) of such section 15(c), designate such rule or regulation, or portion thereof, as a rule or regulation, or portion thereof, a contract in violation of which shall not be void by reason of this subsection.\". SEC. 508. RESTRICTIONS ON BLANK CHECK OFFERINGS. Section 7 of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77g) is amendedŚ (1) by inserting \"(a)\" after \"SEC. 7.\"; and (2) by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection: \"(b)(1) The Commission shall prescribe special rules with respect to registration statements filed by any issuer that is a blank check company. Such rules may, as the Commission determines necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of inves- torsŚ \"(A) require such issuers to provide timely disclosure, prior to or after such statement becomes effective under section 8, of (i) information regarding the company to be acquired and the specific application of the proceeds of the offering, or (ii) addi- PUBLIC LAW 101-429ŚOCT. 15, 1990 104 STAT. 957 tional information necessary to prevent such statement from being misleading; \"(B) place limitations on the use of such proceeds and the distribution of securities by such issuer until the disclosures required under subparagraph (A) have been made; and \"(C) provide a right of rescission to shareholders of such securities. \"(2) The Commission may, as it determines consistent with the public interest and the protection of investors, by rule or order exempt any issuer or class of issuers from the rules prescribed under paragraph (1). \"(3) For purposes of paragraph (1) of this subsection, the term 'blank check company' means any development stage company that is issuing a penny stock (within the meaning of section 3(a)(51) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) and thatŚ \"(A) has no specific business plan or purpose; or \"(B) has indicated that its business plan is to merge with an unidentified company or companies.\". SEC. 509. BROKER/DEALER DISCIPLINARY HISTORY. Section 15A of the Securities Exchange Act 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-3) is amended by adding at the end the following: \"(i) A registered securities association shall, within one year from Telecommunications. the date of enactment of this section, (1) establish and maintain a toll-free telephone listing to receive inquiries regarding disciplinary actions involving its members and their associated persons, and (2) promptly respond to such inquiries in writing. Such association may charge persons, other than individual investors, reasonable fees for written responses to such inquiries. Such an association shall not have any liability to any person for any actions taken or omitted in good faith under this paragraph.\". SEC. 510. REVIEW OF REGULATORY STRUCTURES AND PROCEDURES. (a) REVIEW REQUIRED.ŚThe ClomptroUer General, in consultation with the Securities and Exchange Commission, sheill conduct a review of the rules, procedures, facilities, and oversight and enforce- ment activities of self-regulatory organizations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 with respect to penny stocks (within the meaning of section 3(aX51) of such Act). Such review shall include an angilysis of^ (1) the resources devoted by self-regulatory organizations to the detection, investigation, prosecution, and correction of fraud and abuse in the trading of such penny stocks; (2) the methods and techniques used, and alternative methods which may be used, in those oversight and enforcement activi- ties, including methods and techniques involving coordinated oversight and enforcement activities with other Federal and State authorities; (3) the adequacy of the rules, procedures, and facilities of such self-regulatory organizations for the prevention of excessive spreads and markups, unscrupulous sales practices, and other conduct inconsistent with high standards of commercial honor and just and equitable principles of trade; (4) any obstacles to or limitations on the authority of self- regulatory organizations that impair the conduct of those over- sight and enforcement activities; 15 USC 78s note. 104 STAT. 958 PUBLIC LAW 101-429ŚOCT. 15, 1990 (5) the adequacy of current listing and maintenance require- ments and procedures and the potential for erosion of such requirements and procedures due to issuer avoidance of penny stock designation and regulation; and (6) such other matters as the Comptroller General considers necessary or appropriate. (b) REPORT.ŚWithin one year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit a report on the review required by subsection (a). Such report shall include, in addition to a statement of findings with respect to each matter described in paragraphs (1) through (6) of such subsection, such recommenda- tions as the Comptroller General considers appropriate with respect to legislative or administrative changes. Approved October 15, 1990. LEGISLATIVE HISTORYŚS. 647 (H.R. 975) (H.R. 5325): HOUSE REPORTS: No. 101-616 accompanying H.R. 975 (Comm. on Energy and Commerce). SENATE REPORTS: No. 101-337 (Comm. on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs). CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 136 (1990): July 18, considered and passed Senate. July 23, H.R. 5325 considered and passed House; S. 647, amended, passed in lieu. Sept. 27, Senate concurred in House amendments with an amendment. Oct. 1, House concurred in Senate amendment."
