"x"
"1" "107 STAT. 2344 PUBLIC LAW 103-202—DEC. 17, 1993 Public Law 103-202 103d Congress An Act Dec. 17, 1993 [S. 422] Government Securities Act Amendments of 1993 15 use 78a note. To extend and revise rulemaking authority with respect to government securities under the Federal securities laws, and for other purposes. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS. (a) SHORT TITLE.—^This Act may be cited as the \"Government Securities Act Amendments of 1993\". (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of contents for this Act is as follows: Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents. TITLE I—AMENDMENTS TO THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Sec. 101. Findings. Sec. 102. Extension of government securities rulemaking authority. Sec. 103. Transaction records. Sec. 104. Large position reporting. Sec. 105. Authority of the Commission to regulate transactions in exempted securi- ties. Sec. 106. Sales practice rulemaking authority. Sec. 107. Market information. Sec. 108. Disclosure by government securities brokers and government securities defders whose accounts are not insiured by the S^urities Investor Pro- tection Corporation. Sec. 109. Technical amendments. Sec. 110. Offerings of certain government securities. Sec. 111. Rule of construction. Sec. 112. Study of regulatory system for government securities. TITLE II—REPORTS ON PUBLIC DEBT Sec. 201. Annual report on public debt. Sec. 202. Treasury auction reforms. Sec. 203. Notice on Treasury modifications to auction process. TITLE III—LIMITED PARTNERSHIP ROLLUPS Sec. 301. Short title. Sec. 302. Revision of proxy solicitation rules with respect to limited partnership roUup transactions. Sec. 303. Rules of fair practice in roUup transactions. Sec. 304. Effective date; effect on existing authority. TITLE I—AMENDMENTS TO THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 15USC780-5 SEC. 101. FINDINGS. The Congress finds that— PUBLIC LAW 103-202—DEC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2345 (1) the liquid and efificient operation of the government securities market is essential to facilitate government borrow- ing at the lowest possible cost to taxpayers; (2) the fair and honest treatment of investors will strengthen the integrity and Uquidity of the government securi- ties market; (3) rules promulgated by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to the Government Securities Act of 1986 have worked well to protect investors from unregulated dealers and maintain the efficiency of the government securities market; and (4) extending the authority of the Secretary and providing new authority will ensure the continued strength of the govern- ment securities market. SEC. 102. EXTENSION OF GOVERNMENT SECURITIES RULEMAKING AUTHORITY. Section 15C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-6) is amended by striking subsection (g). SEC. 103. TRANSACTION RECORDS. (a) AMENDMENT.—Section 15C(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-5(d)) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph: \"(3) GOVERNMENT SECURITIES TRADE RECONSTRUCTION.— \"(A) FURNISHING RECORDS.—^Every government securities broker and government securities dealer shall furnish to the Commission on request such records of government securities transactions, including records of the date and time of execution of trades, as the Commission may require to reconstruct trading in the course of a particular inqmiy or investigation being conducted by the Commission for enforcement or surveillance purposes. In requiring information piu'suant to this paragraph, the Commission shall specify the information required, the period for which it is required, the time and date on which the information must be furnished, and whether the informa- tion is to be furnished directly to the Commission, to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or to an appropriate regu- latory agency or self-regulatory organization with responsibility for examining the government securities broker or government securities dealer. The Commission may require that such information be furnished in machine readable form notwith- standing any limitation in subparagraph (B). In utilizing its authority to require information in machine readable form, the Commission shall minimize the burden such requirement may place on small government securities brokers and dealers. \"(B) LIMITATION; CONSTRUCTION.—The Commission shall not utilize its authority under this paragraph to develop regular reporting requirements, except that the Commission may require information to be furnished under this paragraph as frequently as necessary for particular inquiries or investigations for enforcement or surveillance purposes. This paragraph shall not be construed as requiring, or as authorizing the Commission to require, any government securities broker or government securities dealer toi obtain or maintain any information for urposes of this paragraph which is not otherwise maintained y such broker or dealer in accordance with any other provision of law or usual and customary business practice. The Commis- sion shall, where feasible, avoid requiring any information to P 107 STAT. 2346 PUBLIC LAW 103-202—DEC. 17, 1993 be furnished under this paragraph that the Commission may obtain from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. \"(C) PROCEDURES FOR REQUIRING INFORMATION.—At the time the Commission requests any information pursuant to subparagraph (A) with respect to any government securities broker or government securities dealer for which the Commis- sion is not the appropriate regulatory agency, the Commission shall notify the appropriate regulatory agency for such govern- ment securities broker or government securities dealer and, upon request, furnish to the appropriate regulatory agency any information supplied to the Commission. \"(D) CONSULTATION.—Within 90 days after the date of enactment of this paragraph, and annually thereafter, or upon the request of any other appropriate regulatory agency, the Commission shall consult with the other appropriate regulatory agencies to determine the availability of records that may be required to be ftimished under this paragraph and, for those records available directly from the other appropriate regulatory agencies, to develop a procedure for fumishmg such records expeditiously upon the Commission's request. \"(E) EXCLUSION FOR EXAMINATION REPORTS.—Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed so as to permit the Commis- sion to require any government securities broker or government securities dealer to obtain, maintain, or furnish any examina- tion report of any appropriate regulatory agency other than the Commission or any supervisory recommendations or analy- sis contained in any such examination report. Confidentiality. \"(F) AUTHORITY TO LIMIT DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION.— - ^ Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Commission and the appropriate regulatory agencies shall not be compelled to disclose any information required or obtained under this paragraph. Nothing in this paragraph shall authorize the Commission or any appropriate regulatory agency to withhold information from Congress, or prevent the Commission or any appropriate regulatory agency from complying with a request for information from any other Federal department or agency requesting information for purposes within the scope of its jurisdiction, or from complying with an order of a court of the United States in an action brought by the United States, the Commission, or the appropriate regulatory agency. For purposes of section 552 of title 5, United States Code, this subparagraph shall be considered a statute described in sub- section (b)(3)(B) of such section 552.\". (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—(1) Section 15C(a)(4) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-5(a)(4)) is amended by inserting \", other than subsection (dX3),'' after \"subsection (a), (b), or (d) of this section\". (2) Section 15C(f)(2) of such Act is amended— (A) in the first sentence, by inserting \", other than sub- section (d)(3)\", after \"threatened violation of the provisions of this section\"; and (B) in the second sentence, by inserting \"(except subsection (dX3))\" after \"other than this section\". SEC. 104. LARGE POSITION REPORTING. Section 15C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-6) is amended— PUBLIC LAW 103-202—DEC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2347 (1) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (g); and (2) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new sub- section: \"(f) LARGE POSITION REPORTING.— \"(1) REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.—^The Secretary may adopt rules to require specified persons holding, maintaining, or controlling large positions in to-be-issued or recently issued Treasury securities to file such reports regarding such positions as the Secretary determines to be necessary and appropriate for the purpose of monitoring the impact in the Treasury securi- ties market of concentrations of positions in Treasury securities and for the purpose of otherwise assisting the Commission in the enforcement of this title, taking into account any impact of such rules on the efficiency and liquidity of the Treasury securities market and the cost to taxpayers of funding the Federal debt. Unless otherwise specified by the Secretary, reports required under this subsection shall be filed with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, acting as agent for the Secretary. Such reports shall, on a timely basis, be provided directly to the Commission by the person with whom they are filed. \"(2) RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENTS.—Rules under this subsection may require persons holding, maintaining, or controlling large positions in Treasury securities to make and keep for prescribed periods such records as the Secretary deter- mines are necessary or appropriate to ensure that such persons can comply with reporting requirements under this subsection. \"(3) AGGREGATION RULES.—Rules under this subsection— \"(A) may prescribe the manner in which positions and accounts shall be aggregated for the purpose of this sub- section, including aggregation on the basis of common ownership or control; and \"(B) may define which persons (individually or as a group) hold, maintain, or control large positions. \"(4) DEFINITIONAL AUTHORITY; DETERMINATION OF REPORT- ING THRESHOLD.— \"(A) In prescribing rules under this subsection, the Secretary may, consistent with the purpose of this sub- section, define terms used in this subsection that are not otherwise defined in section 3 of this title. \"(B) Rules imder this subsection shall specify— \"(i) the minimum size of positions subject to report- ing under this subsection, which shall be no less than the size that provides the potential for manipulation or control of the supply or price, or the cost of financing arrangements, of an issue or the portion thereof that is available for trading; \"(ii) the types of positions (which may include financing arrangements) to be reported; \"(iii) the securities to be covered; and \"(iv) the form and manner in which reports shall be transmitted, which may include transmission in machine readable form. \"(5) EXEMPTIONS.—Consistent with the public interest and the protection of investors, the Secretary by rule or order may exempt in whole or in part, conditionally or luiconditionally, 107 STAT. 2348 Confidentiality. PUBLIC LAW 103-202—DEC. 17, 1993 any person or class or persons, or any transaction or class of transactions, from the requirements of this subsection. «(6) LIMITATION ON DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION.—^Not- withstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary and the Commission shall not be compelled to disclose any informa- tion required to be kept or reported imder this subsection. Nothing in this subsection shall authorize the Secretary or the Commission to withhold information from Congress, or prevent the Secretary or the Commission from complying with a request for information from any other Federal department or agency requesting information for purposes within the scope of ite jurisdiction, or from compl3dng with an order of a court of the United States in an action brought by the United States, the Secretary, or the Commission. For purposes of section 552 of title 5, United States Code, this paragraph shall be consid- ered a statute described in subsection (b)(3)(B) of such section 552.\". SEC. 105. AUTHORITY OF THE COMMISSION TO REGULATE TRANS- ACTIONS IN EXEMPTED SECURITIES. (a) PREVENTION OF FRAUDULENT AND MANIPULATIVE ACTS AND PRACTICES.—Section 15(c)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 780(c)(2)) is amended— (1) by inserting \"(A)\" after \"(2)\"; (2) by striking \"fictitious quotation, and no municipal secu- rities dealer\" and inserting the following: \"fictitious quotation. \"(B) No municipal securities dealer\"; (3) by striking \"fictitious quotation. The Commission shall\" and inserting the following: \"fictitious quotation. \"(C) No government securities broker or government securities dealer shall make use of the mails or any means or instrumentahty of interstate commerce to effect any transaction in, or induce or attempt to induce the purchase or sale of, any government security in connection with which such government securities broker or government securities dealer engages in any fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative act or practice, or makes any fictitious quotation. \"(D) The Commission shall\"; and (4) by adding at the end the following: \"(E) The Commission shall, prior to adopting any rule or regula- tion under subparagraph (C), consult with and consider the views of the Secretary of the Treasury and each appropriate regulatory agency. If the Secretary of the Treasury or any appropriate regu- latory agency comments in writing on a proposed rule or regulation of the Commission under such subparagraph (C) that has been published for comment, the Commission shall respond in writing to such written comment before adopting the proposed rule. If the Secretary of the Treasury determines, and notifies the Commis- sion, that such rule or regulation, if implemented, would, or as applied does (i) adversely affect the liquidity or efficiency of the market for government securities; or (ii) impose any burden on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the pur- poses of this section, the Commission shall, prior to adopting the proposed rule or regulation, find that such rule or regulation is necessary and appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of this section notwithstanding the Secretary's determination.\". PUBLIC LAW 103-202—DEC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2349 (b) FRAUDULENT AND MANIPULATIVE DEVICES AND CONTRI- VANCES.—Section 15(c)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 780(c)(1)) is amended— (1) by inserting \"(A)\" after \"(c)(1)''; (2) by striking \"contrivance, and no municipal securities dealer\" and inseri^ing the following: \"contrivance. \"(B) No municipal securities dealer\"; (3) by strUdng \"contrivance. The Commission shall\" and inserting the following: \"contrivance. \"(C) No government securities broker or government securities dealer shall make use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce to effect any transaction in, or to induce or attempt to induce the purchase or sale of, any government security by means of any manipulative, deceptive, or other fraudu- lent device or contrivance. \"(D) The Commission shall\"; and (4) by adding at the end the following: \"(E) The Commission shall, prior to adopting any rule or regula- tion under subparagraph (C), consult with and consider the views of the Secretary of the Treasury and each appropriate regulatory agency. If the Secretary of the Treasury or any appropriate regu- latory agency comments in writing on a proposed rule or regulation of the Commission under such subparagraph (C) that has been published for comment, the Commission shall respond in writing to such written comment before adopting the proposed rule. If the Secretary of the Treasury determines, and notifies the Commis- sion, that such rule or regulation, if implemented, would, or as applied does (i) adversely affect the liquidity or efficiency of the market for government securities; or (ii) impose any burden on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the pur- poses of this section, the Commission shall, prior to adopting the proposed rule or regulation, find that such rule or regulation is necessary and appropriate in furtherance of the purooses of this section notwithstanding the Secretary's determination. . SEC. 106. SALES PRACTICE RULEMAKING AUTHORITY. (a) RULES FOR FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS.—Section 15C(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-5(b)) is amended— (1) by redesignating paragraphs (3), (4), (5), and (6) as paragraphs (4), (5), (6), and (7), respectively; and (2) by inserting jafter paragraph (2) the following new para- graph: \"(3)(A) With respect to any financial institution that has filed notice as a government securities broker or government securities dealer or that is required to file notice under subsection (a)(1)(B), the appropriate regulatory agency for such government securities broker or government securities dealer may issue such rules and regulations with respect to transactions in government securities as may be necessary to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices and to promote just and equitable principles of trade. If the Secretary of the Ti'easury determines, and notifies the appro- priate regulatory agency, that such rule or regulation, if imple- mented, would, or as appHed does (i) adversely sifFect the liquidity or efficiency of the market for government securities; or (ii) impose any burden on competition not necessary or appropriate in further- 107 STAT. 2350 PUBLIC LAW 103-202—DEC. 17, 1993 ance of the purposes of this section, the appropriate regulatory agency shall, prior to adopting the proposed nile or regulation, find that such rule or regulation is necessary and appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of this section notwithstanding the Secretary's determination. \"(B) The appropriate regulatory agency shall consult with and consider the views of the Secretary prior to approving or amending a rule or regulation under this paragraph, except where the appro- priate regulatory agency determines that an emergency exists requiring expeditious and summary action and pubhshes its reasons therefor. If the Secretary comments in writing to the appropriate regulatory agency on a proposed rule or regulation that has been published, for comment, the appropriate regulatory agency shall respond in writing to such written comment before approving the proposed rule or regulation. \"(C) In promulgating rules under this section, the appropriate regulatory agency shall consider the sufficiency and appropriateness of then existing laws and rules applicable to government securities brokers, government securities dealers, and persons associated with government securities brokers and government securities dealers.\". (b) RULES BY REGISTERED SECURITIES ASSOCIATIONS.— (1) REMOVAL OF LIMITATIONS ON AUTHORITY.—(A) Section \ 15A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o- 3) is amended— (i) by striking subsections (f)(1) and (f)(2); and (ii) by redesignating subsection (f)(3) as subsection (f). (B) Section 15A(g) of such Act is amended— (i) by striking \"exempted securities\" in paragraph (3)(D) and inserting \"municipal securities\"; (ii) by striking paragraph (4); and (iii) by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (4). (2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.— (A) Section 3(a)(12)(B)(ii) of such Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(12)(B)(ii)) is amended by striking \"15, 15A (other than subsection (g)(3)), and 17A\" and inserting \"15 and 17A\". (B) Section 15(b)(7) of such Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(7)) is amended by inserting \"or government securities broker or government securities dealer registered (or required to register) under section 15C(a)(l)(A)\" after \"No registered broker or dealer\". (c) OVERSIGHT OF REGISTERED SECURITIES ASSOCIATIONS.—Sec- tion 19 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78s) is amended— (1) in subsection (b), by adding at the end the following new paragraphs: \"(5) The Commission shall consult with and consider the views of the Secretary of the Treasury prior to approving a proposed rule filed by a registered securities association that primarily con- cerns conduct related to transactions in government securities, except where the Commission determines that an emergency exists requiring expeditious or summary action and publishes its reasons therefor. If the Secretary of the Treasury comments in writing to the Commission on a proposed rule that has been published for comment, the Commission shall respond in writing to such written comment before approving the proposed rule. If the Sec- retary of the Treasury determines, and notifies the Commission, PUBLIC LAW 103-202—DEC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2351 that such rule, if implemented, would, or as applied does (i) adversely affect the liquidity or efficiency of the market for govern- ment securities; or (ii) impose any burden on competition not nec- essanr or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of this section, the Commission shall, prior to adopting the proposed rule, find that such rule is necessary and appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of this section notwithstanding the Secretary's determina- tion. \"(6) In approving rules described in paragraph (5), the Commis- sion shall consider the sufficiency and appropriateness of then existing laws and rules applicable to government securities brokers, government securities dealers, and persons associated with govern- ment securities brokers and government securities dealers.\"; and (2) in subsection (c), by adding at the end the following new paragraph: \"(5) With respect to rules described in subsection (b)(5), the Commission shall consult with and consider the views of the Sec- retary of the Treasury before abrogating, adding to, and deleting from such rules, except where the Commission determines that an emergency exists requiring expeditious or summary action and publishes its reasons therefor. . SEC. 107. MARKET INFORMATION. Section 23(b)(4) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78w) is amended— (1) by striking subparagraphs (C), (D), and (H); (2) by redesignating subparagraphs (E), (F), and (G) as subparagraphs (C), (D), and (E), respectively; (3) by redesignating subparagraphs (I), (J), and (K) as subparagraphs (F), (G), and (H), respectively; (4) by striking \"and\" at the end of such redesignated subparagraph (G); (5) by striking the period at the end of such redesignated subparagraph (H) and inserting \"; and\"; and (6) by inserting after such redesignated subparagraph (H) the following new subparagraph: \"(I) the steps that have been taken and the progress that has been made in promoting the timely public dissemination and availability for analytical purposes (on a fair, reasonable, and nondiscriminatory basis) 01 information concerning govern- ment securities transactions and quotations, and its rec- ommendations, if any, for legislation to assure timely dissemi- nation of (i) information on transactions in regularly traded government securiti<js sufficient to permit the determination of the prevailing market price for such securities, and (ii) reports of the highest published bids and lowest pubUshed offers for government securities (including the size at which persons are wilUng to trade with respect to such bids and offers).**. SEC. 108. DISCLOSURE BY GOVERNMENT SECURITIES BROKERS AND GOVERNMENT SECURITIES DEALERS WHOSE ACCOUNTS ARE NOT INSURED BY THE SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION CORPORATION. Section 15C(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-5(a)) is amended— (1) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and (2) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following: 107 STAT. 2352 PUBLIC LAW 103-202—DEC. 17, 1993 \"(4) No government securities broker or government securities dealer that is required to register under paragraph (1)(A) and that is not a member of the Securities Investor Protection Corpora- tion shall effect any transaction in any security in contravention of such rules as the Commission shall prescribe pursuant to this subsection to assure that its customers receive complete, accurate, and timely disclosure of the inapplicability of Securities Investor Protection Corporation coverage to their accounts.\". SEC. 109. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS. (a) AMENDMENTS TO DEFINITIONS.—Section 3(a) of the Securi- ties Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)) is amended— (1) in paragraph (34)(G) (relating to the definition of appro- priate regulatory agency), by amending clauses (ii), (iii), and (iv) to read as follows: \"(ii) the Board of CJovemors of the Federal Reserve System, in the case of a State miember bank of the Federal Reserve System, a foreign bank, an uninsured State branch or State agency of a foreign bank, a commercial lending company owned or controlled by a foreign beuik (as such terms are used in the Inter- national Banking Act of 1978), or a corporation orga- ^ ' ^, nized or having an agreement with the Board of (Jov- ': ' emors of the Federal Reserve System pursuant to sec- tion 25 or section 25A of the Federal Reserve Act; \"(iii) the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, '** in the case of a bank insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (other than a member of the Federal Reserve System or a Federal savings bank) ., or an insured State branch of a foreign bank (as such ' terms are used in the International Banking Act of 1978); \"(iv) the Director of the Office of Thrift Super- vision, in the case of a savings association (as defined in section 3(b) of the Federd Deposit Insurance Act) the deposits of which aie insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation;\"; (2) by amending paragraph (46) (relating to the definition \"'-'^ of financial institution) to read as follows: \"(46) The term 'financial institution' means— \"(A) a bank (as defined in paragraph (6) of this sub- section); \"(B) a foreign bank (as such term is used in the Inter- j, national Banking Act of 1978); and \"(C) a savings association (as defined in section 3(b) ; of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act) the deposits of which - are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.\"; and (3) by redesignating paragraph (51) (as added by section 204 of the International Securities Enforcement Cooperation Act of 1990) as paragraph (52). (b) EFFECTIVE DATE OF BROKER/DEALER REGISTRATION.— (1) (JOVERNMENT SECURITIES BROKERS AND DEALERS.—Sec- tion 15C(a)(2)(ii) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-5(aX2)(ii)) is amended by inserting before \"The Commission may extend\" the following: \"The order granting registration shall not be effective until such government securi- PUBLIC LAW 103-202—DEC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2353 ties broker or government securities dealer has become a mem- ber of a national securities exchange registered under section 6 of this title, or a securities association registered under section 15A of this title, unless the Commission has exempted such government securities broker or government securities dealer, by rule or order, from such membership.\". (2) OTHER BROKERS AND DEALERS.—Section 15(b)(1)(B) of such Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(bXlXB)) is amended by inserting before \"The Commission may extend\" the following: \"The order grant- ing registration shall not be effective until such broker or dealer has become a member of a registered securities associa- tion, or until such broker or dealer has become a member of a national securities exchange if such broker or dealer effects transactions solely on that exchange, unless the Commission has exempted such broker or dealer, by rule or order, from such membership.\". (c) INFORMATION SHARING.—Section 15C(d)(2) of such Act is i5USC78o-5. amended to read as follows: \"(2) Information received by an appropriate regulatory agency, the Secretary, or the Commission from or with respect to any government securities broker, government securities dealer, any person associated with a government securities broker or govern- ment securities dealer, or any other person subject to this section or rules promulgated thereunder, may be made available by the Secretary or the recipient agency to the Commission, the Secretary, '^ the Department oi Justice, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, any appropriate regulatory agency, any self-regulatory organization, or any Federal Reserve Bank.\". SEC. 110. OFFERINGS OF CERTAIN GOVERNMENT SECURITIES. Section 15(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o(c)) is amended by adding at the end the following new para- graph: \"(7) In connection with any bid for or purchase of a government security related to an offering of government securities by or on behalf of an issuer, no government securities broker, government securities dealer, or bidder for or purchaser of securities in such offering shall knowingly or willfully make any false or misleading written statement or omit any fact necessary to make any written statement made not misleading.\". SEC. 111. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION. ^ 15 USC 78o-5 (a) IN GENERAL.—No provision of, or amendment made by, this title may be construed— (1) to govern the initial issuance of any public debt obliga- tion, or (2) to grant any authority to (or extend any authority ' of) the Securities and Exchange Commission, any appropriate regulatory agency, or a self-regulatory orgEinization— (A) to prescribe any procedure, term, or condition of such initial issuance, (B) to promulgate any rule or regulation governing such initial issuance, or (C) to otherwise regulate in any manner such initial issuance. (b) EXCEPTION.—Subsection (a) of this section shall not apply to the amendment made by section 110 of this Act. 107 STAT. 2354 PUBLIC LAW 103-202—DEC. 17, 1993 (c) PUBLIC DEBT OBLIGATION.—For purposes of this section, the term \"public debt obligation\" means an obligation subject to the public debt limit established in section 3101 of title 31, United States Code. 15 u s e 78o-5 note. SEC. 112. STUDY OF REGULATORY SYSTEM FOR GOVERNMENT SECURI- TIES. (a) JOINT STUDY.—^The Secretary of the Treasury, the Securities i and Exchange Commission, and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System shall— (1) with respect to any rules promulgated or amended after October 1, 1991, pursuant to section 15C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or any amendment made by this title, and any national securities association rule changes applicable principally to government securities transactions approved after October 1,1991— (A) evaluate the effectiveness of such rules in canying out the purposes of such Acjt; and (B) evaluate the impact of any such rules on the effi- ciency and liquidity of the government securities market and the cost of funding the Federal debt; (2) evaluate the effectiveness of surveillance and enforce- ment with respect to government securities, and the impact on such surveillance and enforcement of the availability of automated, time-sequenced records of essential information . pertaining to trades in such securities; and (3) submit to the Congress, not later than March 31, 1998, any recommendations they may consider appropriate concerning— V (A) the regulation of government securities brokers •: and government securities dealers; (B) the dissemination of information concerning quota- ' tions for and transactions in government securities; (C) the prevention of sŁdes practice abuses in connec- tion with transactions in government securities; and (D) such other matters as they consider appropriate. (b) TREASURY STUDY.—The Secretary of the Treasury, in con- sultation with the Securities and Exchange Commission, shall— (1) conduct a study of— (A) the identity and nature of the business of govern- ment securities brokers and government securities dealers that are registered with the Securities and Exchange . Commission under section 15C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and (B) the continuing need for, and regulatory and finan- cial consequences of, a separate regulatory system for such government securities brokers and government securities dealers; and (2) submit to the Congress, not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary's recommenda- tions for change, if any, or such other recommendations as i the Secretary considers appropriate. PUBLIC LAW 103-202—DEC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2355 TITLE II—REPORTS ON PUBLIC DEBT SEC. 201. ANNUAL REPORT ON PUBUC DEBT. (a) GENERAL RULE.—Subchapter II of chapter 31 of title 31, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section: **§ 3130. Annual public debt report \"(a) GENERAL RULE.—On or before June 1 of each calendar year after 1993, the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit a report to the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Finance of the Senate on— \"(1) the Treasui'/s public debt activities, and \"(2) the operations of the Federal Financing Bank. \"(b) REQUIRED INFORMATION ON PUBLIC DEBT ACTIVITIES.— Each report submitted under subsection (a) shall include the follow- ing information: \"(1) A table showing the following information with respect to the total public debt: \"(A) The past levels of such debt and the projected levels of such debt as of the close of the current fiscal year and as of the close of the next 5 fiscal years under the most recent current services baseline projection of the executive branch. \"(B) The past debt to GDP ratios and the projected debt to GDP ratios as of the close of the current fiscal year and as of the close of the next 5 fiscal years under such most recent current services baseline projection. \"(2) A table showing the following information with respect to the net public debt: \"(A) The past levels of such debt and the projected levels of such debt as of the close of the current fiscal year and as of the close of the next 5 fiscal years under the most recent current services baseUne projection of the executive branch. \"(B) The past debt to GDP ratios and the projected debt to GDP ratios as of the close of the current fiscal year and as of the close of the next 5 fiscal years under such most recent current services baseline projection. \"(C) The interest cost on such debt for prior fiscal years and the projected interest cost on such debt for the current fiscal year and for the next 5 fiscal years under such most recent current services baseline projection. \"(D) The interest cost to outlay ratios for prior fiscal years and the projected interest cost to outlay ratios for the current fiscal year and for the next 5 fiscal years under such most recent current services baseline projection. \"(3) A table showing the maturity distribution of the net public debt as of the time the report is submitted and for prior years, and an explanation of the overall financing strategy used in determining the distribution of maturities when issuing public debt obligations, including a discussion of the projections and assumptions with respect to the structure of interest rates for the current fiscal year and for the succeeding 5 fiscal years. \"(4) A table showing the following information as of the time the report is submitted and for prior years: 69-194 O - 94 - 14 : QL. 3 Part 3 • _ v 107 STAT. 2356 PUBLIC LAW 103-202—DEC. 17, 1993 \"(A) A description of the various categories of the hold- ers of pubhc debt obligations. \"(B) The portions of the total public debt held by each of such categories. \"(5) A table showing the relationship of federsdly assisted borrowing to total Federal borrowing as of the time the report is submitted and for prior years. \"(6) A table showing the annual principal and interest pajrments which would be required to amortize in equal annual payments the level (as of the time the report is submitted) of the net public debt over the longest remaining term to maturity of any obligation which is a part of such debt. \"(c) REQUIRED INFORMATION ON FEDERAL FINANCING BANK.— Each report submitted under subsection (a) shall include (but not be limited to) information on the financial operations of the Federal Financing Bank, including loan pajmients and prepajmients, and on the levels and categories of the lending activities of the Federal Financing Bank, for the current fiscal year and for prior fiscal years. \"(d) RECOMMENDATIONS.—The Secretary of the Treasury may include in any report submitted under subsection (a) such rec- ommendations to improve the issuance and sale of public debt obligations (and with respect to other matters) as he may deem advisable. \"(e) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this section— \"(1) CURRENT FISCAL YEAR.—The term'current fiscal year* means the fiscal year ending in the calendar year in which the report is submitted. \"(2) TOTAL PUBLIC DEBT.—The term 'total public debt' means the total amount of the obligations subject to the public debt limit established in section 3101 of this title. \"(3) N E T PUBLIC DEBT.—The term 'net public debt' means the portion of the total public debt which is held by the public. \"(4) DEBT TO GDP RATIO.—The term 'debt to GDP ratio' means the percentage obtained by dividing the level of the total public debt or net pubhc debt, as the case may be, by the gross domestic product. \"(5) INTEREST COST TO OUTLAY RATIO.—The term 'interest cost to outlay ratio' means, with respect to any fiscal year, the percentage obtained by dividing the interest cost for such fiscal year on the net public debt by the total amount of Federal outlays for such fiscal year.\". (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—^The analysis for subchapter II of chapter 31 of title 31, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new item: \"3130. Annual public debt report.\". 31 u s e 3121 \"°*® SEC. 202. TREASURY AUCTION REFORMS. (a) A B I L I T Y T O S U B M I T C O M P U T E R T E N D E R S I N T R E A S U R Y A U C - TIONS.—^By t h e e n d of 1995, a n y bidder s h a l l be p e r m i t t e d to s u b m i t a computer-generated tender to any automated auction system established by the Secretary of the Treasury for the sale upon issuance of securities issued by the Secretary if the bidder— (1) meets the minimum creditworthiness standard estab- lished by the Secretary; and PUBLIC LAW 103-202—DEC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2357 (2) agrees to comply with regulations and procedures applicable to the automated system and the sale upon issuance of securities issued by the Secretary. (b) PROHIBITION ON FAVORED PLAYERS.— (1) I N GENERAIJ.—No government securities broker or government securities dealer may receive any advantage, favor- able treatment, or other benefit, in connection with the pur- chase upon issuance of securities issued by the Secretary of the Treasury, which is not generally available to other govern- ment securities brokers or government securities dealers under the regulations governing the sale upon issuance of securities issued by the Secretary of the Treasury. (2) EXCEPTION.— (A) I N GENERAL.—^The Secretary of the Treasury may grant an exception to the application of paragraph (1) if— (i) the Secretary determines that any advantage, favorable treatment, or other benefit referred to in such paragraph is necessary and appropriate and in the public interest; and (ii) the grant of the exception is designed to mini- mize any anticompetitive effect. (B) ANNUAL, REPORT.—^The Secretary of the Treasury shall submit an annual report to the Congress describing any exception granted by the Secretary under subpara- graph (A) during the year covered by the report and the basis upon which the exception was granted. (c) MEETINGS OF TREASURY BORROWING ADVISORY COMMIT- TEE.- (1) O P E N MEETINGS.— (A) IN GENERAL.—^Except as provided in subparagraph (B), any meeting of the Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee of the Public Securities Association (hereafter in this subsection referred to as the \"advisory committee\"), or any successor to the advisory committee, shall be open to the public. (B) EXCEPTION.—Subparagraph (A) shall not apply with respect to any part of any meeting of the advisory committee in which the advisory committee— (i) discusses and debates the issues presented to the advisory committee by the Secretary of the Treas- ury; or (ii) makes recommendations to the Secretary. (2) MINUTES OF EACH MEETING.—The detailed minutes required to be maintained under section 10(c) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act for any meeting by the advisory committee shall be made available to the public within 3 busi- • ness days of the date of the meeting. (3) PROHIBITION ON RECEIPT OF GRATUITIES OR EXPENSES BY ANY OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE OF THE BOARD OR DEPARTMENT.— In connection with any meeting of the advisory committee, no officer or employee of the Department of tne Treasury, the Board of Grovemors of the Federal Reserve System, or any Federal reserve bank may accept any gratuity, consider- ation, expense of any sort, or any other thing of value from any advisory committee described in subsection (c), any member of such committee, or Łuiy other person. (4) PROHIBITION ON OUTSIDE DISCUSSIONS.— 107 STAT. 2358 PUBLIC LAW 103-202—DEC. 17, 1993 (A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph (B), a mem- ber of the advisory committee may not discuss any part of any discussion, debate, or recommendation at a meeting of the advisory committee which occurs while such meeting is closed to the public (in accordance with paragraph (1)(B)) with, or disclose the contents of such discussion, debate, or recommendation to, anyone other than— (i) another member of the advisory committee who is present at the meeting; or (ii) an officer or employee of the Department of the Treasury. (B) APPLICABLE PERIOD O F PROHIBITION.—The prohibi- tion contained in subparagraph (A) on discussions and disclosures of any discussion, debate, or recommendation at a meeting of the advisory committee shall cease to apply— (i) with respect to any discussion, debate, or rec- ommendation which relates to the securities to be auc- tioned in a midquarter refunding by the Secretary of the Treasury, at the time the Secretary makes a public announcement of the refunding; and (ii) with respect to any other discussion, debate, or recommendation at the meeting, at the time the Secretary releases the minutes of the meeting in accordance with paragraph (2). '* (C) REMOVAL FROM ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR VIOLA- TIONS OF THIS PARAGRAPH.—In addition to any penalty • or enforcement action to which a person who violates a provision of this paragraph may be subject under any other provision of law, the Secretary of the Treasury shall— (i) remove a member of the advisory committee who violates a provision of this paragraph from the advisory committee and permanently bar such person from serving as a member of the advisory committee; and (ii) prohibit any director, officer, or employee of the firm of which the member referred to in clause (i) is a director, officer, or employee (at the time the member is removed from the advisory committee) from serving as a member of the advisory committee at any time during the 5-year period beginning on the date of such removal, (d) REPORT TO CONGRESS.— (1) REPORT REQUIRED.—^The ' '' Secretary of the Treasury shall submit an annual report to the Congress containing the follow- ing information with respect to material violations or suspected material violations of regulations of the Secretary relating to auctions and other offerings of securities upon the issuance of such securities by the Secretary: (A) The number of inquiries begun by the Secretary during the year covered by the report regarding such mate- rial violations or suspected material violations by any participant in the auction system or any director, officer, or employee of any such participant and the number of inquiries regarding any such violations or suspected viola- tions which remained open at the end of such year. (B) A brief description of the nature of the violations. PUBLIC LAW 103-202—DEC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2359 (C) A brief description of any action taken by the Secretary during such year with respect to any such viola- tion, including any referrals made to the Attorney Greneral, the Securities and Exchange Commission, any other law enforcement agency, and any Federal banking agency (as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act). (2) DELAY IN DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION IN CERTAIN CASES.—^The Secretsiry of the Treasury shall to include in a report under paragraph (1) the disclosure of which could jeopardize an an agency described in paragraph (1)(C) for disclosure could jeopardize the investigation. not be required any information investigation by so long as such SEC. 203. NOTICE ON TREIASURY MODIFICATIONS TO AUCTION PROC- 31 USC 3121 ESS. note. The Secretary of the Treasury shall notify the Congress of any significant modifications to tne auction process for issuing United States Treasury obligations at the time such modifications are implemented. TITLE III—LIMITED PARTNERSHIP ROLLUPS SEC. 301. SHORT TITLE. This title may be cited as the \"Limited Partnership RoUup Reform Act of 1993\". SEC. 302. REVISION OF PROXY SOLICITATION RULES WITH RESPECT TO LIMITED PARTNERSHIP ROLLUP TRANSACTIONS. (a) AMENDMENT.—Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78n) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection: \"(h) PROXY SOLICITATIONS AND TENDER OFFERS IN CONNECTION WITH LIMITED PARTNERSIHIP ROLLUP TRANSACTIONS.— \"(1) PROXY RULES TO CONTAIN SPECIAL PROVISIONS.—It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit any proxy, consent, or authorization concerning a limited partnership rollup trans- action, or to make any tender offer in furtherance of a limited partnership rollup transaction, unless such transaction is con- ducted in accordance with rules prescribed by the Commission under subsections (a) and (d) as required by this subsection. Such rules shall— \"(A) permit any holder of a security that is the subject of the proposed limited partnership rollup transaction to engage in preliminary communications for the purpose of determining whether to solicit proxies, consents, or authorizations in opposition to the proposed limited part- nership rollup iTansaction, without regard to whether any such communication would otherwise be considered a solici- tation of proxies, and without being required to file solicit- ing material with the Commission prior to making that determination, except that— \"(i) nothing in this subparagraph shall be con- strued to limit the application of any provision of this title prohibiting, or reasonably designed to prevent, Limited Partnership »S°™ 15 USC 78a 107 STAT. 2360 PUBLIC LAW 103-202—DEC. 17, 1993 fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative acts or practices under this title; and \"(ii) any holder of not less than 5 percent of the outstanding securities that are the subject of the pro- posed limited partnership roUup transaction who engages in the business of bujdng and selling limited partnership interests in the secondary market shall be required to disclose such ownership interests and any potential conflicts of interests in such preliminary communications; \"(B) require the issuer to provide to holders of the securities that are the subject of the limited partnership roUup transaction such list of the holders of the issuer s securities as the Commission may determine in such form and subject to such terms and conditions as the Commis- sion may specify; \"(C) prohibit compensating any person soliciting proxies, consents, or authorizations directly from security holders concerning such a limited partnership roUup transaction— \"(i) on the basis of whether the solicited proxy, consent, or authorization either approves or dis- approves the proposed limited partnership roUup trans- action; or \"(ii) contingent on the approval, disapproval, or completion of the limited partnership rollup trans- action; \"(D) set forth disclosure requirements for soliciting material distributed in connection with a limited partner- ship rollup transaction, including requirements for clear, concise, and comprehensible disclosure with respect to— \"(i) any changes in the business plan, voting rights, form of ownership interest, or the compensation of the general partner in the proposed limited partnership rollup transaction from each of the original limited partnerships; \"(ii) the conflicts of interest, if any, of the general partner; \"(iii) whether it is expected that there will be a significant difference between the exchange values of the limited partnerships and the trading price of the securities to be issued in the limited partnership rollup transaction; \"(iv) the valuation of the limited partnerships and the method used to determine the value of the interests of the limited partners to be exchanged for the securi- ties in the limited partnership rollup transaction; \"(v) the differing risks and effects of the limited partnership rollup transaction for investors in different limited partnerships proposed to be included, and the risks and effects of completing the limited partnership rollup transaction with less than all limited partner- ships; \"(vi) the statement by the general partner required under subparagraph (E); \"(vii) such other matters deemed necessary or appropriate by the Commission; PUBLIC LAW 103-202—DEC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2361 \"(E) require a statement by the general partner as to whether the proposed limited partnership roUup trans- action is fair or unfair to investors in each limited partner- ship, a discussion of the basis for that conclusion, and an evaluation and a description by the general partner of alternatives to the limited partnership rollup trans- action, such as liquidation; \"(F) provide that, if the general partner or sponsor has obtained any opinion (other than an opinion of counsel), appraisal, or report that is prepared by an outside party and that is materially related to the limited partnership rollup transaction, such sohciting materials shall contain or be accompanied by clear, concise, and comprehensible disclosure with respect to— \"(i) the analysis of the transaction, scope of review, preparation of the opinion, and basis for and methods of arriving at conclusions, and any representations and undertakings with respect thereto; \"(ii) the identity and qualifications of the person who prepared the opinion, the method of selection of such person, and any material past, existing, or con- templated relationships between the person or any of its affiliates and the general partner, sponsor, succes- sor, or any other Łif!iliate; \"(iii) any compensation of the preparer of such opinion, appraisal, or report that is contingent on the transaction s approval or completion; and \"(iv) any limitations imposed by the issuer on the access afforded to such preparer to the issuer's person- nel, premises, and relevant nooks and records; \"(G) provide that, if the general partner or sponsor has obtained any opinion, appraisal, or report as described in subparagraph (F) from any person whose compensation is contingent on the transaction's approval or completion or who has not been given access by the issuer to its personnel and premises and relevant books and records, the general ptirtner or sponsor shall state the reasons therefor; \"(H) provide that, if the general partner or sponsor has not obtained any opinion on the fairness of the proposed limited partnership rollup transaction to investors in each of the affected partnerships, such soliciting materials shall contain or be accompanied by a statement of such partner's or sponsor's reasons for concluding that such an opinion is not necessary in order to permit the limited partners to make an informed decision on the proposed transaction; \"(I) require that the sohciting material include a clear, concise, and comprehensible summary of the limited part- nership rollup transaction (including a summary of the matters referred to in clauses (i) through (vii) of subpara- graph (D) and a summary of the matter referred to in subparagraphs (F), (G), and (H)), with the risks of the limited partneiship rollup transaction set forth prominently in the fore part thereof; \"(J) provide that any solicitation or offering period with respect to any proxy solicitation, tender offer, or information statement in a Umited partnership rollup 107 STAT. 2362 PUBLIC LAW 103-202—DEC. 17, 1993 transaction shall be for not less than the lesser of 60 calendar days or the maximum number of days permitted under applicable State law; and \"(K) contain such other provisions as the Commission determines to be necessary or appropriate for the protection of investors in limited partnership roUup transactions. \"(2) EXEMPTIONS.—The Commission may, consistent with the public interest, the protection of investors, and the purposes of this title, exempt by rule or order any security or class of securities, any transaction or class of transactions, or any person or class of persons, in whole or in part, conditionally or unconditionally, from the requirements imposed pursuant to paragraph (1) or from the definition contained in paragraph (4). \"(3) EFFECT ON COMMISSION AUTHORITY.—Nothing in this subsection limits the authority of the Commission under sub- section (a) or (d) or any other provision of this title or precludes the Commission from imposing, under subsection (a) or (d) or any other provision of this title, a remedy or procedure required to be imposed under this subsection. \"(4) DEFINITION OF LIMITED PARTNERSHIP ROLLUP TRANS- ACTION.—Except as provided in paragraph (5), as used in this subsection, the term limited partnership rollup transaction' means a transaction involving the combination or reorganiza- tion of one or more limited partnerships, directly or indirectly, in which— \"(A) some or all of the investors in any of such limited partnerships will receive new securities, or securities in another entity, that will be reported under a transaction reporting plan declared effective before the date of enact- ment of this subsection by the Commission under section llA; \"(B) any of the investors' limited partnership securities are not, as of the date of filing, reported under a transaction reporting plan declared effective before the date of enact- ment of this subsection by the Commission under section llA; \"(C) investors in any of the limited partnerships involved in the transaction are subject to a significant adverse change with respect to voting rights, the term of existence of the entity, management compensation, or investment objectives; and \"(D) any of such investors are not provided an option to receive or retain a security under substantially the same terms Euid conditions as the original issue. \"(5) EXCLUSIONS FROM DEFINITION.—Notwithstanding para- graph (4), the term 'limited partnership rollup transaction' does not include— \"(A) a transaction that involves only a limited partner- ship or partnerships having an operating policv or practice of retaining cash available for distribution and reinvesting proceeds from the sale, financing, or refinancing of assets in accordance with such criteria as the Commission deter- mines appropriate; \"(B) a transaction involving only limited partnerships wherein the interests of the limited partners are repurchased, recalled, or exchanged in accordance with the PUBLIC LAW 103-202—DEC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2363 terms of the preexisting limited partnership agreements for securities in an operating company specifically identi- i* fied a t the time of the formation of the original limited partnership; \"(C) a transaction in which the securities to be issued or exchanged are not required to be and are not registered under the Securities Act of 1933; \"(D) a transaction that involves only issuers that are not required to register or report under section 12, both ii before and after the transaction; \"(E) a transaction, except as the Commission may otherwise provide by rule for the protection of investors, involving the combination or reorganization of one or more limited partnerships in which a non-affiliated party suc- ceeds to the interests of a general partner or sponsor, if— \"(i) such action is approved by not less than 66% percent of the outstanding units of each of the partici- pating limited partnerships; and \"(ii) as a result of the transaction, the existing general partners will receive only compensation to which they are entitled as expressly provided for in the preexisting limited partnership agreements; or \"(F) a transaction, except as the Commission may otherwise provide by rule for the protection of investors, in which the securities offered to investors are securities of another entity that are reported under a transaction reporting plan declared effective before the date of enact- ment of this subsection by the Commission under section l l A , if— \"(i) such other entity was formed, and such class of securities was reported and regularly traded, not less than 12 months before the date on wnich soliciting material is mailed to investors; and \"(ii) the securities of that entity issued to investors in the transaction do not exceed 20 percent of the total outstanding securities of the entity, exclusive of any securities of such class held by or for the account of the entity or a subsidiary of the entity.\". (b) SCHEDULE FOR REGULATIONS.—The Securities and Exchange Effective date. Commission shall conduct rulemaking proceedings and prescribe ^otY^^^*^ final regulations under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to implement the requirements of section 14(h) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended by sub- section (a), and such regulations shall become effective not later than 12 months after the date of enactment of this Act. (c) EVALUATION OF FAIRNESS OPINION PREPARATION, DISCLO- isuscTSn SURE, AND U S E . — ^°^^- (1) EVALUATION REQUIRED.—The Comptroller General of the United States shall, within 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act, conduct a study of— (A) the use of fairness opinions in limited partnership roUup transactions; (B) the standards which preparers use in making deter- minations of fEiimess; (C) the scope of review, quality of analysis, qualifica- tions and methods of selection of preparers, costs of 107 STAT. 2364 PUBLIC LAW 1 0 3 - 2 0 2 - D E C . 17, 1993 preparation, and any limitations imposed by issuers on such preparers; (D) the nature and quality of disclosures provided with respect to such opinions; (E) any conflicts of interest with respect to the prepara- tion of such opinions; and (F) the usefulness of such opinions to limited partners. (2) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than the end of the 18- month period referred to in paragraph (1), the Comptroller Greneral of the United States shall submit to the Congress a report on the evaluation required by paragraph (1). SEC. 303. RULES OF FAIR PRACTICE IN ROLLUP TRANSACTIONS. (a) REGISTERED SECURITIES ASSOCIATION RULE.—Section 15A(b) , \ of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-3(b)) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph: \"(12) The rules of the association to promote just and equitable principles of trade, as required by paragraph (6), include rmes to prevent members of the association from participating in any limited partnership roUup transaction (as such term is defined in paragraphs (4) and (5) of section 14(h)) unless such transaction was conducted in accordance with procedures designed to protect the rights of limited partners, including— \"(A) the right of dissenting limited partners to one of the following: \"(i) an appraisal and compensation; \"(ii) retention of a security under substantially the same terms and conditions as the original issue; \"(iii) approval of the Umited partnership roUup transaction by not less than 75 percent of the outstand- ing securities of each of the participating limited part- nerships; \"(iv) the use of a committee that is independent, as determined in accordance with rules prescribed by '' the association, of the general partner or sponsor, that has been approved by a majority of the outstanding •;. securities of each of the participating partnerships, and that has such authority as is necessary to protect the interest of limited partners, including the authority ' to hire independent advisors, to negotiate with the general partner or sponsor on behalf of the limited partners, and to make a recommendation to the limited partners with respect to the proposed transaction; or \"(v) other comparable rignts that are prescribed by rule by the association and that are designed to protect dissenting limited partners; \"(B) the right not to have their voting power unfairly reduced or abridged; \"(C) the right not to bear an unfair portion of the costs of a proposed limited partnership roUup transaction that is rejected; and \"(D) restrictions on the conversion of contingent interests or fees into non-contingent interests or fees and restrictions on the receipt of a non-contingent equity ' interest in exchange for fees for services which have not yet been provided. PUBLIC LAW 103-202—DEC. 17, 1993 . 107 STAT. 2365 As used in this paragraph, the term 'dissenting limited partner* means a person who, on the date on which soUciting material is mailed to investors, is a holder of a beneficial interest in a limited partnership that is the subject of a limited partnership roUup transaction, and who casts a vote against the transaction and complies with procedures established by the association, except that for purposes of an exchange or tender ofiFer, such person shall file an objection in writing under the rules of the association during the period in which the offer is outstand- ing.\". (b) LISTING STANDARDS OF NATIONAL SECURITIES EXCHANGES.— Section 6(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78f(b)) is amended by adding at the end the following: \"(9) The rules of the exchange prohibit the listing of any security issued in a limited partnership roUup transaction (as such term is defined in paragraphs (4) and (5) of section 14(h)), unless such transaction was conducted in accordemce with procedures designed to protect the rights of limited partners, including— \"(A) the right of dissenting limited partners to one of the following: \"(i) an appraisal and compensation; \"(ii) retention of a security under substantially the same terms and conditions as the original issue; \"(iii) approval of the limited partnership roUup transaction by not less than 75 percent of the outstand- ing securities of each of the participating limited part- nerships; \"(iv) the use of a committee of limited partners that is independent, as determined in accordance with rules prescribed by the exchange, of the general part- ner or sponsor, that has been approved by a majority of the outstanding units of each of the participating limited partnerships, and that has such authority as is necessaiy to protect the interest of limited partners, including the authority to hire independent advisors, to negotiate with the general partner or sponsor on behalf of the limited partners, and to maJce a rec- ommendation to the limited partners with respect to the proposed transaction; or \"(v) other comparable rights that are prescribed by rule by the exchange and that are designed to protect dissenting limited partners; (B) the right not to have their voting power unfairly reduced or abridged; \"(C) the l i ^ t not to bear an unfair portion of the costs of a proposed Umited partnership roUup transaction that is rejected; and \"(D) restrictions on the conversion of contingent interests or fees into non-contingent interests or fees and restrictions on the receipt of a non-contingent equity interest in exchange for fees for services which have not yet been provided. As used in this paragraph, the term 'dissenting limited partner' means a person who, on the date on which soliciting material is mailed to investors, is a holder of a beneficial interest in a limited partnership that is the subject of a limited partnership 107 STAT. 2366 *\" PUBLIC LAW 103-202—DEC. 17, 1993 roUup transaction, and who casts a vote against the transaction and compUes with procedures established by the exchange, except that for purposes of an exchange or tender offer, such person shall file an objection in writing under the rules of the exchange during the period during which the offer is outstanding.\". (c) STANDARDS FOR AUTOMATED QUOTATION SYSTEMS.—Section 15A(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o- 3(b)) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph: \"(13) The rules of the association prohibit the authorization for quotation on an automated interdealer quotation system sponsored by the association of any security designated by the Commission as a national market system security resulting from a limited partnership roUup transaction (as such term is defined in paragraphs (4) and (5) of section 14(h)), unless such transaction was conducted in accordance with procedures designed to protect the rights of limited partners, including— \"(A) the right of dissenting limited partners to one of the following: \"(i) an appraisal and compensation; \"(ii) retention of a security under substantially the same terms and conditions as the original issue; ' \"(iii) approval of the limited partnership rollup transaction by not less than 75 percent of the outstand- ing securities of each of the participating Umited part- nerships; \"(iv) the use of a committee that is independent, as determined in accordance with rules prescribed by the association, of the general partner or sponsor, that has been approved by a majority of the outstanding securities of each of the participating partnerships, and that has such authority as is necessary to protect the interest of limited partners, including the authority to hire independent advisors, to negotiate with the general partner or sponsor on behalf of the limited partners, and to make a recommendation to the limited partners with respect to the proposed transaction; or \"(v) other comparable rights that are prescribed by rule by the association and that are designed to protect dissenting limited partners; \"(B) the right not to have their voting power unfairly reduced or abridged; \"(C) the right not to bear an unfair portion of the costs of a proposed limited partnership rollup transaction that is rejected; and \"(D) restrictions on the conversion of contingent interests or fees into non-contingent interests or fees and restrictions on the receipt of a non-contingent equity interest in exchange for fees for services which have not yet been provided. As used in this paragraph, the term 'dissenting limited partner* means a person who, on the date on which soliciting material is mailed to investors, is a holder of a beneficial interest in a Umited partnership that is the subject of a limited partnership rollup transaction, and who casts a vote against the transaction and complies with procedures established by the association, except that for purposes of an exchange or tender offer, such PUBLIC LAW 103-202—DEC. 17, 1993 107 STAT. 2367 person shall file an objection in writing under the rules of the association during the period during which the offer is outstanding.\". SEC. 304. EFFECTIVE DATE; EFFECT ON EXISTING AUTHORITY. (a) EFFECTIVE DATE.— (1) I N GENERAL,.—^The amendments made by section 303 shall become effective 12 months after the date of enactment of this Act. (2) RULEMAKING AUTHORITY.—Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the authority of the Securities and Exchange Commission, a registered securities association, and a national securities exchange to commence rulemaking proceedings for the purpose of issuing rules pursuant to the amendments made by section 303 is effective on the date of enactment of this Act. (3) REVIEW OF FILINGS PRIOR TO EFFECTIVE DATE.—^Prior to the effective date of regulations promulgated pursuant to this title, the Securities and Exchange Commission shall con- tinue to review and declare effective registration statements and amendments thereto relating to limited partnership roUup transactions in accordance with applicable regulations then in effect. (b) E F F E C T ON EXISTING AUTHORITY.—The amendments made by this title shall not Umit the authority of the Securities and Exchange Commission, a registered securities association, or a national securities exchange under any provision of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or preclude the Commission or such associa- tion or exchange from imposing, imder any other such provision, a remedy or procedure required to be imposed under such amend- ments. Approved December 17, 1993. LEGISLATIVE HISTORY—S. 422 (H.R. 618): H O U S E REPORTS: No. 103-255 accompanying H.R. 618 (Comm. on Energy and Commerce). SENATE REPORTS: No. 103-109 (Comm. on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs). C O N G R E S S I O N A L RECORD. Vol. 139 (1993): July 29, considered and passed Senate. Oct. 5, H.R. 618 considered and psissed House; S. 422, amended, passed in lieu. Nov. 22, Senate concurred in House amendments with an amendment. House concurred in Senate amendment. W E E K L Y COMPILATION O F P R E S I D E N T I A L DOCUMENTS, Vol. 29 (1993): Dec. 17, Presidential statement. 15 USC 78f"
