"x"
"1" "88 STAT. ] PUBLIC LAW 93-501-OCT. 29, 1974 1557 Provided, That no action taken in fulfillment of the policy set forth ^^^^'^•^^^' in this paragraph shall apply to the export of medicine or medical supplies.\" ALLOCATION OP LICENSES SEC. 12. Section 4(b) (1) of the Export Administration Act of 1969 J^ use app. is amended by adding at the end thereof the following: \"In curtailing the exportation of any articles, materials, or supplies to effectuate the policy set forth in section 3 (2) (A) of this Act, the President is author- so use app. ized and directed to allocate a portion of export, licenses on the basis ^'*°^' of factors other than a prior history of exportation.\" EXPIRATION DATE SEC. 13. Section 14 of the Export Administration Act of 1969 is amended by striking \"September 30,1974\" and inserting in lieu thereof \"September 30,1976\". PRESIDENTIAL so use app. REVIEW SEC. 14. The President is directed to revdew all laws, regulations ^2 use 2153 issued thereunder by the Atomic Energy Commission, the Department \"°*^* of Commerce, and other (xovernment agencies, governing the export and re-export of materials, supplies, articles, technical data or other information relating to the design, fabrication, development, supply, repair or replacement of any nuclear facility or any part thereof, and to report within six months to the Congress on the adequacy of such ^ Report to regulations to prevent the proliferation of nuclear capability for non- °\"^'^^^^- peaceful purposes. The President is also directed to review domestic and international nuclear safeguards and to report within six months to the Congress on the adequacy of such safeguards to prevent the pro- liferation, diversion or theft of all such nuclear materials and on efforts by the United States and other countries to strengthen international nuclear safeguards in anticipation of the Eeview Conference scheduled to be held in February 1975 pursuant to Article V I I I , section 3 of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.\" ^^ UST 483. Approved October 29, 1974. Public Law 93-501 AN A C T October 29, 1974 To authorize the regulation of interest rates payable on obligations issued by affiliates of certain depository institutions, and for other purposes. Be it enacted hy the Seriate and House of Representatives Vnited States of America in Congress assembled. [s. 3838] of the •^ ^^^^ obligations. I s s u a n c e and s a l e , regulation. T I T L E I — K E G U L A T I O N O F I N T E R E S T R A T E S ON CERTAIN OBLIGATIONS SEC. 101. Section 19(a) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 461) is amended by inserting \"and, regardless of the use of the proceeds,\" immediately before \"shall be deemed a deposit\". (b) The amendment made by subsection (a) shall not apply to any bank holding company which has filed prior to the date of enactment of this Act an irrevocable declaration with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to divest itself of all of its banks under section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act, or to any debt obligation which is an exempted security under section 3 ( a ) ( 3 ) of the Securities Act of 1933. 38-194 O - 76 -16 Pt. 2 12 use 461 12 use 1843. IS use 77c. note 1558 12 u s e 1828 note. PUBLIC LAW 93-501-OCT. 29, 1974 [88 STAT. SKC. 102. (a) The sixth sentence of section 18(g) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(g)) is amended by striking out \"for tlie purpose of obtaining funds to be used in the banking business\". (b) The amendment made by subsection (a) shall not apply to any bank holding company which has filed prior to the date of enactment of this Act an irrevocable declaration with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to divest itself of all of its banks under section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act, or to any debt obligation whicli is an exempted security under section 3(a) (3) of the Securities Act of 1933. SEC. 103. Section 5B of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1425b) is amended as follows: (1) by adding at the end of subsection (a) thereof the follow- ing new sentences: \"The provisions of this subsection shall apply, in the discretion of the Board, to an obligation issued by an affili- ate of an institution which is an insured institution as defined in section 401(a) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1724(a)). The Board is authorized to define by regulation the terms used in this section, except that the Board may not, under the additional authority conferred by this sentence and the preceding sentence, define as a deposit any debt obligation which is an exempted security under section 3(a) (3) of the Securities Act of 1933.\"; (2) by striking out \"institution subject to this section\" in sub- section (b) thereof and inserting in lieu thereof \"person or orga- nization\" ; and (3) by striking out \"nonmember institution\" and \"institution\" in subsection (c) thereof and inserting in lieu thereof \"person or organization\" in both places. TITLE II—INTEREST RATE AMENDMENTS REGARDING S T A T E U S U R Y C E I L I N G S ON B U S I N E S S LOANS SEC. 201. Section 5197 of the Revised Statutes, as amended (12 U.S.C. 85), is amended by inserting in the first and second sentences before the phrase \"whichever may be the greater\", the following: \"or in the case of business or agricultural loans in the amount of $25,000 or more, at a rate of 5 per centum in excess of the discount rate on ninety-day commercial paper in effect at the Federal Reserve bank in the Federal Reserve district where the bank is located,\". SEC. 202. The Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811-31) is amended by adding at the end thereof the following: State-chartered \"SEC. 24. (a) 111 oi'der to prevciit discrimination against State- int^r'e^'t ^a\"e^s^' chartered insured banks with respect to interest rates, if the applicable limitation. ' rate prescribed in this subsection exceeds the rate such State bank 12 use 1831a. would be permitted to charge in the absence of this subsection, a State bank may in the case of business or agricultural loans in the amount of $25,000 or more, notwithstanding any State constitution or statute, which is hereby preempted for the purposes of this section, take, receive, reserve, and charge on any loan or discount made, or upon any note, bill or exchange, or other evidence of debt, interest at a rate of not more than 5 per centum in excess of the discount rate on ninety- day commercial paper in effect at the Federal Reserve bank in the Federal Reserve district where the bank is located, and such interest may be taken in advance, reckoning the days for which the note, bill, or other evidence of debt has to run. Interest over- \"(b) If the rate prescribed in subsection (a) exceeds the rate such charge, forfeiture State bank would be permitted to charge in the absence of this para- graph, and such State fixed rate is thereby preempted by the rate 88 STAT. ] PUBLIC LAW 93-501-OCT. 29, 1974 1559 described in subsection ( a ) , the taking, receiving, reserving, or charg- ing a greater rate of interest than is allowed by subsection ( a ) , when knowingly done, shall be deemed a forfeiture of the entire interest Avhich the note, bill, or other evidence of debt carries with it, or which has been agreed to be paid thereon. If such greater rate of interest 1 1 • 1 ii 1 • I -J • • •! j^' interest pay- merit recovery. has been paid, the person who paid it may recover m a civil action commenced in a court of appropriate jurisdiction not later than two years after the date of such payment, an amount equal to twice the jimount of the interest paid from the State bank taking or receiving such interest.\". SEC. 203. Title I V of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1724- 1730(d)) is amended by adding at the end thereof the following: ''SEC. 412. (a) If the applicable rate prescribed in this section savings and loan exceeds the rate an insured institution would be permitted to charge rate°charges/toi- 12 u s e 1730e. in the absence of this section, such institution may in the case of tation business or agricultui'al loans in the amount of $25,000 or more, not- withstanding any State constitution or statute, which is hereby pre- empted for the purposes of this section, take, receive, reserve, and charge on any loan or discount made, or upon any note, bill of exchange, or other evidence of debt, interest at a rate of not more than 5 per centum in excess of the discount rate on ninety-day com- uiercial paper in effect at the Federal Reserve bank in the Federal Reserve district where the institution is located, and such interest may be taken in advance, reckoning the days for which the note, bill, or Interest over- other evidence of debt has to run. \"(b) If the rate prescribed in subsection (a) exceeds the rate such charge, forfeiture. institution would be permitted to charge in the absence of this section, and such State fixed rate is thereby preempted by the rate described in subsection ( a ) , the taking, receiving, reserving, or charging a greater I'ate of interest than that prescribed by subsection ( a ) , when know- ingly done, shall be deemed a forfeiture of the entire interest which the note, bill, or other evidence of debt carries with it, or which has recovery. been agreed to be paid thereon. If such greater rate of interest has ment interest pay been paid, the person who paid it may recover, m a civil action com- menced in a court of appropriate jurisdiction not later than two years after the date of such payment, an amount equal to twice the amount of the interest paid from the institution taking or receiving such interest.\". SEC. 204. Section 308 of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, as amended (15 II.S.C^. ^61), is amended by adding at the end thereof ^^ use the following: Small b u s i n e s s investment '''(h)(1) I n order to facilitate the orderly and necessary flow of ^^^^^^^^, ,^,^^ com- long-term loans and equity funds to small business concerns, as defined panles\"lnte^est in the Small Business Act, if the maximum interest rate permitted by charges, umita the Small Business Administration exceeds the rate a small business 'Tsusc 631 investment company would be permitted to charge in the absence of note. this subsection, such small business investment company may in the case of business loans in the amount of $25,000 or more, notwithstand- ing any State constitution or statute, which is hereby preempted for the purposes of this section, take, receive, reserve, and charge on any such loan, interest at a rate of not more than 5 per centum in excess of the discount rate on ninety-day commercial paper in effect at the Fed- eral Reserve bank in the Federal Reserve district where the small business investment company is located. Interest over- \"(2) If the rate prescribed in paragraph (1) exceeds the rate such charge, forfeiture. small business investment company would be permitted to charge in the absence of this subsection, and such State fixed rate is thereby pre- empted by the rate described in paragraph (1), the taking, receiving, reserving or charging a greater rate than is allowed by paragraph (1), 1560 Interest pay- ment recovery. 12 u s e 1831a note. Effective d a t e . 12 u s e 1831a note. PUBLIC LAW 93-501-OCT. 29, 1974 [88 STAT. when knowingly done, shall be deemed a forfeiture of the entire inter- est which the loan carries with it, or which has been agreed to be paid thereon. If such greater rate of interest has been paid, the person who paid it may recover, in a civil action commenced in a court of appro- priate jurisdiction not later than two years after the date of such pay- ment, an amount equal to twice the amount of interest paid from the small business investment company taking or receiving such interest.\" SEC. 205. If any provision of this title or the application of such pro- vision to any person or circumstance shall be held invalid, the remain- der of the title and the application of such provision to any person or circumstance other than that as to which it is held invalid shall not be affected thereby. SEC. 206. The amendments made by this title shall apply to any loan made in any State after the date of enactment of this title, but prior to the earlier of July 1, 1977, or the date (after the date of enactment of this title) on which the State enacts a provision of law which pro- hibits the charging of interest at the rates provided in the amendments made by this title. TITLE III—APPLICABILITY OF STATE USURY CEIL- INGS TO C E R T A I N O B L I G A T I O N S I S S U E D B Y B A N K S AND A F F I L I A T E S 12 u s e 4 6 1 . 12 u s e 3 7 1 b - l . SEC. 301. Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act is amended by add- ing at the end thereof the following new subsection: \" (k) No member bank or affiliate thereof, or any successor or assignee of such member bank or affiliate or any endorser, guarantor, or surety of such member bank or affiliate may plead, raise, or claim directly or by counterclaim, setoff, or otherwise, with respect to any deposit or obligation of such member bank or affiliate, any defense, right, or benefit under any provision of a statute or constitution of a State or of a territory of the United States, or of any law of the District of Columbia, regulating or limiting the rate of interest which may be charged, taken, received, or reserved, and any such provision is hereby preempted, and no civil or criminal penalty which would otherwise be applicable under such provision shall apply to such member bank or affiliate or to any other person.\" SEC. 302. Section 18 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1828) is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection: \" ( k ) No insured nomnember bank or affiliate thereof, or any suc- cessor or assignee of such bank or affiliate or any endorser, guarantor, or surety of such bank or affiliate may plead, raise, or claim, directly or by counterclaim, setoff, or otherwise, with respect to any deposit or obligation of such bank or affiliate, any defense, right, or benefit under any provision of a statute or constitution of a State or of a terri- tory of the United States, or of any law of the District of Columbia, regulating or limiting the rate of interest which may be charged, taken, received, or reserved, and any such provision is hereby pre- empted, and no civil or criminal penalty which would otherwise be applicable under such provision shall apply to such bank or affiliate or to any other person.\" SEC. 303. Section 5B of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 14:25b) is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection: \" (e) No member or nonmember association, institution, or bank or affiliate thereof, or any successor or assignee, or any endorser, guaran- tor, or surety thereof may plead, raise, or claim, directly or by counter- claim, setoff, or otherwise, with respect to any deposit or obligation of such member or nonmember association, institution, bank or affiliate, 88 STAT. ] PUBLIC LAW 93-502-NOV. 21, 1974 1561 any defense, right, or benefit under any provision of a statute or constitution of a State or of a territory of the United States, or of any law of the District of Columbia, regulating or limiting the rate of interest which may be charged, taken, received, or reserved, and any such provision is hereby preempted, and no civil or criminal penalty which would otherwise be applicable under such provision shall apply to such member or nonmember association, institution, bank, or affiliate or to any other person.\" SEC. 304. The amendments made by this title shall apply to any fs^usc^a/iblV deposit made or obligation issued in any State after the date of note. enactment of this title, but prior to the earlier of (1) July 1, 1977 or (2) the date (after such date of enactment) on which the State enacts a provision of law which limits the amount of interest which may be charged in connection with deposits or obligations referred to in the amendments made by this title. Approved October 29, 1974. Public Law 93-502 AN A C T November 2 1 , 1974 To amend section 552 of title 5, United States Code, known as the Freedom of ' Information Act. Be it enacted hy the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That (a) the fourth sentence of section 552 (a) (2) of title 5, United States Code, is amended to read as follows: \"Each agency shall also maintain and make avail- able for public inspection and copying current indexes providing identifying information for the public as to any matter issued, adopted, or promulgated after July 4, 1967, and required by this paragraph to be made available or published. Each agency shall promptly publish, quarterly or more frequently, and distribute (by sale or otherwise) copies of each index or supplements thereto unless it determines by order published in the Federal Register that the publication would be unnecessary and impracticable, in which case the agency shall none- theless provide copies of such index on request at a cost not to exceed the direct cost of duplication.\". (b) (1) Section 552(a) (3) of title 5, United States Code, is amended , ^ ' \ ' o -,-, \ / \ / 7 1 '-— — Public informa- *'°\"* tion'^and d'irtiibu!^\" tion. „ Publication in ^^.':°'^^' ^z:\"'^' ability to p u b l i c . to read as rollows: \"(3) Except with respect to the records made available under para- graphs (1) and (2) of this subsection, each agency, upon any request for records which (A) reasonably describes such records and (B) is made in accordance with published rules stating the time, place, fees (if a n y ) , and procedures to be followed, shall make the records promptly available to any person.\". (2) Section 552(a) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by Document search redesignating paragraph (4), and all references thereto, as paragraph f^es'^^e^'uiaV\"\" (5) and by inserting immediately after paragraph (3) the following tions. new paragraph: \"(4) (A) I n order to carry out the provisions of this section, each agency shall promulgate regulations, pursuant to notice and receipt of public comment, specifying a uniform schedule of fees applicable to all constituent imits of such agency. Such fees shall be limited to reasonable standard charges for document search and duplication and provide for recovery of only the direct costs of such search and dupli- cation. Documents shall be furnished without charge or at a reduced charge where the agency determines that waiver or reduction of the fee is in the public interest because furnishing the information can be considered as primarily benefiting the general public."
