7/2/09 1:40 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 3http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1284176&type=hitlist&num=9
Document Outline
Senate
House
Final Action
Interest Rate Controls
An article from CQ Almanac 1968
Congress Sept. 18 sent to the President a bill (S 3133) extending for one year a 1966 law (PL 89-597), which would
have expired Sept. 21, giving federal banking regulatory agencies more flexible authority to set interest  rates for
fixed maturity (time) deposits in banks and savings and loan institutions. The Administration requested the
legislation, but wanted a longer extension.
The law had been passed at a time when investors were withdrawing their funds from savings and loan institutions,
which served the home mortgage market, to invest at higher rates of interest  in banks. The law was intended to
protect S&Ls, the principal source of home financing.
Except for a minor disagreement over the length of the extension, the only controversy over the bill arose when
amendments were proposed in committee in both chambers to direct the Federal Reserve Board to buy directly
obligations of Government agencies when such action would aid the housing market. Such activity was permitted
but not directed under PL 89-597. The Administration opposed this provision which was dropped from the final bill.
PROVISIONS—As sent to the President, S 3133:
Extended for one year, through Sept. 21, 1969, the 1966 law (PL 89-597) giving federal bank regulatory agencies
flexible authority to set different limits on the interest  rates that banks and other financial institutions could pay
on different types and amounts of fixed maturity (time) deposits.
Gave the Federal Reserve Board, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
added authority to prevent deceptive advertising for time and savings deposits.
Broadened the assets thrift institutions may count in meeting reserve requirements and allowed the Federal Home
Loan Bank Board to set reserve requirements ranging from 4 to 10 percent of assets. (Existing law provided a range
of 4 to 8 percent.)
Eased prepayment requirements on insurance premiums by insured thrift institutions.
Permitted Federal Reserve banks to accept as loan collateral from member banks the direct obligations of federal
agencies.
Made permanent the Federal Reserve Board's authority to purchase on the open market the obligations of any
Government agency.
Made permanent the provision of PL 89-597 which set 10 percent as the maximum reserves that the Federal
Reserve could require member banks to hold against time or savings deposits (the minimum was 3 percent).
Senate
COMMITTEE—Senate Banking and Currency; John J. Sparkman (D Ala.), chairman.
ACTION—Reported June 28 a bill (S 3133—S Rept 1343) directing the Federal Reserve Board (Fed) to purchase
directly obligations issued by federal agencies, when such action would help the mortgage market; and extending for
two more years the regulatory agencies’ authority under PL 89-597 for more flexible regulation of interest  or
dividends and reserve requirements.
Committee Changes. William Proxmire (D Wis.) offered two amendments to S 3133. One amendment, which made
it clear that the Fed and the other regulatory agencies had the authority to regulate advertising, was adopted without
objection. However, an amendment directing the Fed to exercise its authority to purchase directly Government-
guaranteed obligations was approved by an 8–4 vote.
Committee Views. The Committee said it gave the Fed authority to make direct purchases of federal agency
 
7/2/09 1:40 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 3http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1284176&type=hitlist&num=9
Committee Views. The Committee said it gave the Fed authority to make direct purchases of federal agency
obligations (such as Federal National Mortgage Assn. participation certificates) to overcome a past objection of the
Fed that indirect purchases through the open market (authority the Fed already had in PL 89-597) provided no
assurance that the proceeds would find their way back to the mortgage market.
Regarding the extension of PL 89-597, the majority said, “With continued pressure on credit markets, all financial
agencies of the Government agree that an additional two-year extension of the rate control authority is absolutely
essential to help prevent a similar financial disruption such as occurred in 1966.”
The advertising amendment was needed, the report said, to clarify “the authority of the financial agencies to issue
rules and regulations to prohibit any misleading and deceptive advertising concerning rates paid on time and savings
deposits.”
Minority Views. The five Republican members of the Committee signed a report opposing the direct-purchase
amendment as being a Government subsidy to one portion of the mortgage market that “would probably trigger
outflows of private funds from the mortgage markets.”
Agency Views. The Treasury Department and the Fed strongly opposed the direct purchase amendment. They
argued that the action directed in the bill would be inflationary and would disrupt the management of the public debt
in an attempt to aid a segment of the market which ordinarily furnished less than half the total mortgage money in a
given year.
Floor Action
The Senate July 24 by voice vote passed S 3133, after accepting by a 46–45 roll-call vote an amendment by
Wallace F. Bennett (R Utah), ranking Banking and Currency Committee Republican, to drop Administration-opposed
language that allowed the Federal Reserve Board (Fed) to make direct purchases of federal agency obligations.
(See vote 200, p. 42-S.)
The Administration-opposed language previously had been approved by the Committee. Acceptance of the Bennett
amendment did not change existing law, which permitted open-market purchases.
Most floor debate centered on the Bennett amendment.
Proxmire, who had offered the Administration-opposed amendment in Committee, said the direct-purchase provision
would ensure that housing would not bear the brunt of a tight money policy. He said the housing industry, which
represented 3 percent of the gross national product, had to carry 60 percent of the effects of tight money in 1966.
Proxmire argued further that the amendment would only go into effect when the housing market was tight and not
during times when such money market policies on the part of the Fed would be inflationary.
Bennett argued that in 1968 there were $15-billion more worth of new liquid resources than in 1966 for the housing
industry and thus the direct-purchase provision was not needed.
Before accepting the Bennett amendment, the Senate had rejected an amendment by Sparkman to set a $2-billion
annual ceiling on Fed purchases of Government agency obligations. Sparkman's amendment, supported by
Proxmire, was designed to meet criticism that the direct-purchase provision of the Committee bill would force the
Fed to purchase large amounts of agency issues. Sparkman's effort to soften the direct-purchase provision was
opposed by Bennett as a “first attempt to breach the responsibilities of the (Fed) to provide special benefits for one
special segment of the economy.”
PROVISIONS—As passed by the Senate, S 3133:
Extended the life of PL 89-597 for two more years.
Gave the Federal Reserve Board, the Federal House Loan Bank Board and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
added authority to prevent deceptive advertising for time and savings deposits.
Broadened the assets thrift institutions may count in meeting reserve requirements and allowed the Federal Home
Loan Bank Board to set reserve requirements ranging from 4 to 10 percent of assets.
Eased prepayment requirements on insurance premiums by insured thrift institutions.
Permitted Federal Reserve Banks to accept as loan collateral from member banks the obligations of federal
agencies.
AMENDMENTS ACCEPTED
July 24—Wallace F. Bennett (R Utah)—Strike language authorizing and directing the Federal Reserve Board to
purchase directly or on the open market obligations of Government agencies when such action would aid the
housing market. Roll-call vote, 46–45.
John J. Sparkman (D Ala.)—Broaden the assets that thrift institutions could count in meeting reserve requirements,
and allow the Federal Home Loan Bank Board to set reserve requirements at between 4 and 10 percent of assets.
Voice.
7/2/09 1:40 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 3http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal68-1284176&type=hitlist&num=9
Sparkman—Ease prepayment requirements on insurance premiums by insured thrift institutions. Voice.
William Proxmire (D Wis.)—Permit Federal Reserve Banks to accept as loan collateral the obligations of federal
agencies. Voice.
AMENDMENT REJECTED
July 24—Sparkman—To limit the amount of Federal Reserve Bank purchases of agency obligations to $2 billion
annually. Roll call, 44–44. (Vote 199, p. 42-S.)
House
COMMITTEE—House Banking and Currency; Wright Patman (D Texas), chairman.
ACTION—July 26 reported with amendments a bill (HR 16092—H Rept 1814) extending for one year the life of PL
89-597.
Committee Changes. The Committee made permanent the section of PL 89-597 which provided that bank reserves
for other than demand deposits were to range between 3 and 10 percent. The Committee also made permanent the
Federal Reserve Board's authority to purchase on the open market the obligations of any Government agency.
The Committee July 18 defeated two controversial amendments related to direct purchases of Government agency
obligations by the Fed to aid the housing market. The vote was 9–22 on a proposal by Patman to direct the Fed to
make direct purchases when warranted by housing market conditions. A somewhat weaker amendment by Henry S.
Reuss (D Wis.) was defeated 7–25.
Floor Action
The House Sept. 16 by a voice vote passed S 3133, amended. As passed, S 3133 combined provisions of the
Senate version and the House Committee bill (HR 16092). The amendments were approved by House Banking and
Currency Committee members before floor action. The major difference was the House's one year extension of PL
89-597 rather than the Senate's two-year extension.
Final Action
The Senate Sept. 18 accepted the House amendments and sent S 3133 to the President who signed it Sept. 21 (PL
90-505).
Document Citation
"Interest Rate Controls." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal68-1284176. Originally published in CQ
Almanac 1968 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1969). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal68-1284176 (accessed
July 2, 2009).
Document ID: cqal68-1284176
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal68-1284176
© 1969, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
