7/2/09 2:50 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 3http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal71-1252712&type=hitlist&num=8
Document Outline
House
Senate
Credit Unions
An article from CQ Almanac 1971
Congress Dec. 13 cleared a bill (HR 9961—PL 92 - 221 ) providing for two years temporary insurance for
certain federally chartered credit unions.
Final action came when the House and Senate Dec. 13 by voice votes adopted the conference report on the bill (H
Rept 92 -715). The conference report was filed Dec. 8.
Conferees adopted the version of the bill passed by the Senate Nov. 24 with one modification. The change would
allow the administrator of the National Credit Union Administration to prevent the closing of any federally chartered
credit union receiving temporary share insurance if there was reasonable assurance that the credit union's financial
difficulties could be resolved within the two-year period.
Congress in 1970 approved legislation (S 3822—PL 91-468) establishing a federal insurance system for state and
federally chartered credit unions. By late 1971, 11,000 credit unions had been certified for insurance by the National
Credit Union Administration, but another 1,400 were rejected for federal insurance. About 80 percent failed to meet
the cash reserve requirements set by the Administration. (1970 Almanac p. 328)
PROVISIONS. As signed by the President, HR 9961:
Provided for a two-year period temporary share insurance for federally chartered credit unions which failed to meet
insurance standards. At the end of the two-year period, any credit union which failed to meet insurance standards would
have its charter revoked. Losses by those credit unions would be paid by the credit union share insurance fund. The
administrator of the National Credit Union Administration could prevent the closing of any federally chartered credit
union receiving provisional share insurance if he found there was reasonable assurance that the credit union's financial
difficulties could be resolved within the two-year period so as to minimize the expenses of the insurance fund.
Specified that in states which allowed state credit unions to accept demand deposits (currently only Rhode Island),
otherwise qualified credit unions could not be refused federal insurance solely because they accepted demand deposits.
Authorized the National Credit Union Administration to guarantee any insured credit union against loss if it assumed the
liabilities and purchased the assets or merged with another credit union.
House
Committee Action. The House Banking and Currency Committee Oct. 1 by a 27-4 roll-call vote reported HR 9961
(H Rept 92 -543). Voting against the measure were Albert W. Johnson (R Pa.), Ben B. Blackburn (R Ga.), Bill
Archer (R Texas) and Bill  Frenzel (R Minn.).
As reported, HR 9961 required the National Credit Union Administration to provide insurance for up to two years to
any federal credit union whose application it had turned down, provided the credit union met the reserve
requirements and did not violate any other provision of the Federal Credit Union Act of 1934. If the credit union did
not comply with the criteria for obtaining permanent insurance within the two-year period, it would revert to an
uninsured status and face liquidation.
Other provisions of HR 9961 were the same as those finally approved (above).
Floor Action. The House Oct. 4 failed to pass HR 9961.
The bill was considered under suspension of the rules, which requires a two-thirds majority for passage. On the roll-
call vote a majority, 197-122, approved HR 9961, but this was 16 less than the required two-thirds vote (213). (Vote
190, p. 64-H)
The bill was sent back to the House Banking and Currency Committee.
Banking and Currency Committee Chairman Wright Patman (D Texas) explained that “the purpose of HR 9961 is to
 
7/2/09 2:50 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 3http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal71-1252712&type=hitlist&num=8
make certain that the National Credit Union Administration is not setting unrealistic standards that have caused
these credit unions to be unable to obtain the insurance.”
Albert W. Johnson (R Pa.) said the bill was self-defeating because credit unions not meeting the Administration's
reserve requirements were in violation of the Federal Credit Union Act and thus ineligible for special insurance. He
urged members to “vote down the request to suspend the rules. The bill can then be brought before the House
under regular procedure and amended to correct the errors. Personally, I approve…a simple three-year extension
for a credit union to qualify for insurance.”
Second Consideration. The Banking and Currency committee amended HR 9961 to extend the time limit in which
federally chartered credit unions could qualify for insurance to three years, from the one-year limit set by a 1970 law
setting up the insurance program. During the three-year qualifying period the credit union could not be insured but
would continue to operate.
In the first version of HR 9961, non-qualifying credit unions automatically would have received temporary insurance
for two years.
The House Nov. 1, by a 349-0 vote, suspended its rules and passed the amended version of HR 9961. (Vote 217,
p. 74-H)
As passed by the House, HR 9961 extended for two years, to a total of three years, the period during which a
federal credit union could qualify for federal credit union insurance. During the qualifying period, the credit union
would not be insured but could continue to operate. If at the end of the three-year period it still did not qualify, its
assets would be liquidated.
The other provisions were the same as those finally approved (above).
Senate
Committee Action. The Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee Nov. 11 unanimously reported HR
9961 (S Rept 92-449) without amendment. The report said, “The committee is hopeful that both the administrator
(of the National Credit Union Administration) and credit union organizations will use all the means at their disposal to
assure that, to the maximum extent possible, all credit unions which are in a position to provide a service to their
members will become in-surable during the additional two years provided by the committee bill.”
In additional views, William Proxmire (D Wis.), Harrison A. Williams Jr. (D N.J.), Walter F. Mondale (D Minn.), Alan
Cranston (D Calif.) and Adlai E. Stevenson III (D Ill.) supported the plan to grant non-qualifying credit unions two extra
years to qualify for federal insurance but said, “The committee bill fails to protect the savers in those credit unions
which still cannot meet the insurance standards even after two years.” There would be about 365 non-qualifying
credit unions at the end of two years, they said.
In separate additional views, Robert Taft Jr. (R Ohio) said a concentrated effort should be made to help small, low-
income credit unions to meet federal standards at the end of the two-year period, and such nonqualifying credit
unions should be subsidized if necessary to continue their operations.
Floor Action. The Senate passed an amended version of HR 9961 on Nov. 24 by a 79-0 roll-call vote. (Vote 367,
p. 59-S)
Before passage the Senate, 62-17, voted to amend the bill to provide for two-year provisional insurance for
federally chartered credit unions which failed to meet the insurance standards of a 1970 law. At the end of the two-
year period, credit unions which failed to meet insurance standards would have their charters revoked and would
probably be required to liquidate their assets. (Vote 366, p. 59-S)
Proxmire, sponsor of the amendment, said, “The principal difference between my amendment and the committee bill
as reported is what happens to these 365 credit unions and their savers at the end of the two-year period. Under
the committee bill, the 365 credit unions would be required to liquidate, most of them at a loss to their savers. These
losses could approach $2-million…. Under my amendment, any losses by the 365 credit unions would be paid by
the credit union share insurance fund. Thus, there would be no loss to the individual savers in those credit unions
which fail to meet the insurance standards.”
Wallace F. Bennett (R Utah), second-ranking Republican on the committee, opposed the Proxmire amendment. He
said, “The proposition that all federal credit unions be insured regardless of their operating soundness is strongly
opposed by the National Credit Union Administration, credit union organizations and many credit unions on grounds
of equity, equality of treatment between state chartered and federally chartered credit unions and the concept that
credit unions, to really serve their members, should be required to meet certain minimum standards of financial
soundness in their operations.” The amendment gave a special advantage to federally chartered credit unions but
discriminated against state chartered credit unions by not giving them the same privilege, he said.
Committee Chairman John Sparkman (D Ala.) supported the amendment.
As passed by the Senate, HR 9961 provided for a two-year period provisional share insurance for federally
chartered credit unions which failed to meet insurance standards. At the end of the two-year period, any credit union
7/2/09 2:50 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 3http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal71-1252712&type=hitlist&num=8
chartered credit unions which failed to meet insurance standards. At the end of the two-year period, any credit union
which failed to meet insurance standards would have its charter revoked. Losses by those credit unions would be
paid by the credit union share insurance fund.
Its other provisions were the same as those finally approved.
Document Citation
"Credit Unions." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal71-1252712. Originally published in CQ Almanac
1971 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1972). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal71-1252712 (accessed July 2,
2009).
Document ID: cqal71-1252712
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal71-1252712
© 1972, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
