7/2/09 3:04 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 1 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal73-1228188&type=hitlist&num=7
Stock Market and Financial
Services
2004 Stock Option Accountability
2001 SEC Law a Win for Wall Street
1999 Major Overhaul Enacted Of Rules
Governing the Financial Services
Industry
1998 Loophole Fix Moves Class-Action
Securities Suits From State to
Federal Courts
1998 Financial Services Overhaul Dies
in Senate, A Victim of Friendly
Fire
1997 Financial Services Overhaul Stalls
1996 Securities Regulation Provisions
1996 Financial Services Provisions
1996 Congress Streamlines Securities
Rules
1994 Other Securities-Related Bills
Considered in 1994
1994 Financial Services Trade Bill
Falters at Session's End
1993 Financial Services Bill Seeks To
Open Markets
1993 Bill Tightens Regulation of
Government Bond Market
1992 Government Securities Bill Is
Quashed
1991 Government Securities Bill
Considered
1990 Market Control Authority of the
Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) Increased
1990 Congress Passes Bills
Strengthening Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC)
1989 Securities Arbitration
1989 Market Reform Stalled
1988 Stock Market Regulation
1988 Insider-Trading Bill
1986 Securities Dealer Regulations
1985 Government Securities Firms
1982 Commodity Futures Trading Bill
Cleared
1980 Securities Investor Privacy
1977 Investor Protection
1975 Overhaul Of Securities Industry
Approved
1974 Rules Committee Blocks
Securities Bill
1974 Municipal Bonds Regulation
1973 Stock Exchange Membership
1973 Securities Transactions
1973 Securities Thefts
1973 Federal Financing Bank
1972 Securities Transactions
1972 Securities Industry
1971 Securities Thefts: Mafia Moves on
Wall Street
Federal Financing Bank
An article from CQ Almanac 1973
Document Outline
Senate Action on S 925
Action on HR 5874
Congress Dec. 19 cleared legislation (HR 5874-PL 93 - 224 )
establishing a federal financing bank.
Granting the Nixon administration's request, the House and Senate by voice
votes approved a conference report on a measure setting up a special bank
within the Treasury Department to coordinate federal agency borrowing.
As cleared, the legislation would create a federal financing bank to buy
securities issued by federal agencies to finance their activities. In turn, the
bank would fund its operations by selling its own securities to the public.
By centralizing sales of federal securities on public markets, advocates
believed, the bank could cut federal borrowing costs and make government
borrowing on public markets less confused and disruptive. As a further step
toward more orderly federal borrowing, the bill would give the Treasury
secretary authority to approve or disapprove in advance the financing
programs planned by separate federal agencies.
That power would give the secretary a chance to pass judgment on the
borrowing methods, sources of financing, timing, interest rates, maturities and
other conditions adopted by the agencies in issuing obligations.
In its final version, the bill included provisions exempting certain federal
agencies and types of securities from the Treasury's scrutiny. It also put a
time limit on a Treasury decision approving or vetoing an agency's financing
plans to keep an administration from terminating a program simply by
withholding judgment.
The legislation was similar to a bill that was passed by the Senate and
reported by the House Ways and Means Committee in 1972. (1972 Almanac
p. 800)
HR 5874 was passed by the House Nov. 6 and the Senate, amended, Nov. 7.
In passing HR 5874, the Senate substituted the provisions of its own bill (S
925), which it had passed earlier in the year. A conference report was filed
Dec. 5 and approved by both chambers Dec. 19.
Provisions. As cleared, HR 5874:
Created a federal financing bank within the Treasury Department to
coordinate borrowing by federal agencies.
Authorized the bank to buy and sell any obligation issued or guaranteed by a
federal agency.
Authorized the bank to sell up to $15-billion in its own obligations to the public
to finance its operations.
Authorized appropriation of up to $100-million without fiscal year limitation as
a loan from the Treasury to provide initial capital for the bank.
Required advance approval by the Treasury secretary of the method, source,
timing, terms and conditions carried by any obligations issued or sold by a
federal agency.
 
7/2/09 3:04 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 2 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal73-1228188&type=hitlist&num=7
1971 Securities Industry
1970 Securities Exemption
1970 Protection for Stockholders
1970 Mutual Funds: New Controls
After Four-Year Delay
1970 Congress Clears Securities
Investor Protection Bill
1969 Securities Hearings
1969 Mutual Funds
1968 Securities Disclosure
1968 Over-The-Counter Securities
1968 Institutional Investors Study
1967 Securities Disclosure
1967 Hearings Held on S.E.C. Bill to
Regulate Mutual Funds
1965 Securities Fees
1964 Controls Over Stock Issues and
Dealers Strengthened
1963 SEC Study Submitted; Senate
Approves Bill
1962 S.E.C. Activities
1955 Stock Market Study
1955 Government Securities
1954 Changes In SEC Law
federal agency.
Directed the secretary to approve to disapprove a securities issue within 120
days. If the secretary had not acted after 60 days, he was required to report
his reasons for delay to Congress.
Forbade the secretary to impose a disproportionate burden on any single
federal agency if it were necessary to delay or withhold approval of financing
plans.
Exempted Farmers Home Administration rural housing securities from the
requirement of prior Treasury secretary approval.
Stated that the measure could not be interpreted as providing additional
authority for federal agencies to borrow funds or guarantee debt.
Senate Action on S 925
The Senate originally passed its version of the bill (S 925) June 22 by voice
vote. S 925 had been reported (S Rept 93 –166) by the Banking, Housing
and Urban Affairs Committee May 21.
Committee Action
In approving the Nixon administration's proposal for a special bank to
coordinate borrowing by federal agencies, the Senate committee May 21 modified the legislation to guard against
abuse of powers it would confer to curtail or eliminate programs.
The bill would establish a Federal Financing Bank to buy securities issued by federal agencies to finance their
activities. In turn, the bank would finance its own operations by selling securities to the public.
The financing bank measure also gave the Treasury secretary power to approve or disapprove agency proposals for
new securities issues.
That authority, some members of Congress feared, could be used by the secretary to curtail or eliminate an
agency's programs, thus giving the executive branch a chance to kill programs created by Congress that
administration officials opposed.
To prevent such action with powers conferred by S 925, the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee
approved an amendment requiring the secretary to give his approval or disapproval to agency financing proposals
within 120 days. The amendment also required that Treasury decisions on financing programs should not
disproportionately curtail any particular kind of federal activity.
“If the secretary…determines that some agency financing must be delayed because of the market situation at the
time,” the committee report said, “this amendment indicates that the secretary should hold up various types of
obligations on a more or less proportionate basis, rather than, for example, holding up public housing bonds
exclusively.”
The committee also amended S 925 to require the Treasury secretary to explain to Congress whenever he held up
an agency financing plan for more than 60 days. As introduced, the bill required a report after 120 days.
In a further revision, the committee amended S 925 to eliminate provisions making obligations issued by the Federal
Financing Bank subject to state and local taxation. By exempting the bank's obligations from state and local taxes,
the committee explained, S 925 would conform with legislation establishing the bank that was approved by the
Senate and House Ways and Means Committee in 1972.
By an 8-8 tie vote, the committee rejected an amendment exempting from the requirement of Treasury approval all
obligations guaranteed by the government-as distinguished from obligations issued and sold directly by government
agencies themselves.
The amendment would have undermined coordination efforts, the committee maintained, because “most securities
market financing by federal agencies is in the form of guaranteed obligations rather than in the form of direct agency
issues of sales.”
Of $17.8-billion in government agency (excluding Treasury) market demands projected by the fiscal 1974 budget,
more than $9-billion represented guaranteed obligations to be financed in securities markets, the committee said.
In reporting the 1972 legislation, the committee had denied the Treasury authority over guaranteed obligations
because it objected to such control over obligations, such as home mortgages, not ordinarily financed in securities
markets.
In its report on S 925, however, the committee said the bill met its objections by exempting from Treasury approval
programs in which an agency guarantees large numbers of obligations issued and serviced by local lending
7/2/09 3:04 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 3 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal73-1228188&type=hitlist&num=7
programs in which an agency guarantees large numbers of obligations issued and serviced by local lending
institutions that are not ordinarily traded on bond or securities markets.
In additional views, William Proxmire (D Wis.) objected to giving the Treasury secretary control over guaranteed
obligations. Such control was inappropriate, he charged, because the Treasury itself is a major market borrower and
“might be tempted to curtail these other programs in order to maintain lower interest rates on Treasury obligations.”
Treasury control also “would have a disproportionate impact on housing and urban development programs, which
account for 80 per cent of all guarantee programs” put under such control by S 925, he contended.
By conferring such control over both guaranteed and direct obligations, Proxmire said, the bill “gives the secretary of
the Treasury sweeping and unprecedented impoundment authority over federal credit programs.”
Floor Action
Exemption for FHA. Making its only significant change in the committee's bill, the Senate by a 54-23 roll-call vote
adopted an amendment by William Proxmire (D Wis.) exempting Farmers Home Administration financing from the
requirement for Treasury Department approval. (Vote 208, p. 35-S)
Offering the amendment on behalf of Hubert H. Humphrey (D Minn.), who was in Britain, Proxmire stressed that
under its terms the Farmers Home Administration still could participate in the Federal Financing Bank.
The amendment's purpose, Proxmire explained, was to remove the agency from a potentially “crippling review” by
the Treasury. The Farmers Home Administration finances rural housing development.
Because the agency's obligations were sold in the same markets as Treasury obligations, Proxmire contended, “it is
virtually inevitable that Treasury will control the timing and other characteristics for the benefit of its own
obligations.”
John G. Tower (R Texas), ranking Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee Republican, objected that
Proxmire's amendment would put the rural housing agency in a secondary status within the proposed Federal
Financing Bank, which therefore would offer better terms to other agencies subject to Treasury scrutiny. As a result,
Tower said, the Farmers Home Administration would lose possible savings. A majority of the Senate, however,
favored the amendment.
Sales of U.S. Gold. By voice vote, the Senate adopted an amendment by Jacob K. Javits (R N.Y.) to declare it the
sense of Congress that the federal government should start negotiations with major monetary powers toward
allowing sales of U.S. gold stocks to licensed private users.
Since 1968, the United States and the European nations had maintained a two-tier system separating official gold
reserves from the private gold market. Under the 1968 arrangement, the nations agreed to exchange gold among
themselves but not with private gold markets. (Congress and the Nation Vol. II, p. 272)
To end a continuing drain on U.S. gold reserves caused by balance-of-payments deficits, President Nixon in 1971
ended the limited convertibility of dollars held by foreign governments into gold owned by the federal government.
(1971 Almanac p. 58)
Javits said sales of U.S. gold to licensed users would help calm gold markets, aid domestic gold users and improve
the nation's balance of payments. Under existing conditions, he explained, domestic gold users were caught
between a price freeze on their products and rising prices for gold on world markets.
Action on HR 5874
House Action. The House Nov. 6, by a 349-25 vote, passed HR 5874, to establish a federal financing bank. (Vote
490, p. 154-H)
The purpose of the bill was to lessen the confusion and cost of the existing system whereby certain federal
agencies financed their programs through the financial securities markets. The proposed bank would buy up
securities issued by federal agencies and then resell them to the public.
To aid in financial planning, the bill also would require the secretary of the Treasury to approve the method, source,
timing, terms and conditions of financing by federal agencies. The secretary would be required to give Congress a
detailed explanation if he withheld approval for more than 120 days.
Committee Action. The Ways and Means Committee June 20 unanimously reported (H Rept 93 –299) HR
5874. As reported, the bill was identical to a measure reported to the House late in 1972.
The report said the bill was needed because an increase in federal credit activities in recent years had greatly
expanded the total federal impact on the securities markets. Federal agencies which sold securities to finance their
operations thus were competing with each other for buyers and were forcing government lending costs to an
unnecessarily high level.
The report said that if the agencies placed their securities on the market through an over-all coordinating bank, the
bank would “have the necessary expertise, flexibility, volume and marketing power” to minimize financing costs.
7/2/09 3:04 PMCQ Almanac Online Edition
Page 4 of 4http://library.cqpress.com.monstera.cc.columbia.edu:2048/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal73-1228188&type=hitlist&num=7
The committee made two major changes in the bill as requested by the administration. One amendment exempted
from the requirement of Treasury approval all obligations guaranteed by the federal government, as distinguished
from obligations issued and sold directly by government agencies themselves. Another amendment eliminated a
provision making federal financing bank bonds subject to state and local taxation.
Floor Action. HR 5874 was considered under suspension of the rules, prohibiting floor amendments. During debate,
Charles A. Vanik (D Ohio) said he would have favored stiffer language to force agencies to funnel their debt
management activities through the bank. He also said the bill should require the bank to provide regular reports on
the size of the government's contingent liabilities. Nevertheless, he supported HR 5874: “The present patchwork of
public debt management practices is confusing, costly, and often irrationally inflationary.”
Opposing the bill, H. R. Gross (R Iowa) said: “We have gotten along pretty well without the creation of still another
bank and another bureaucracy in the federal government, and this apparently will be an expensive one.”
Gross challenged the necessity of a $100-million authorization for administrative costs to establish the bank. Al
Ullman (D Ore.), floor manager of the bill, responded that the bank would save the government considerably more
than $100-million in administrative expenses.
Related Senate Action. The Senate Nov. 7 passed HR 5874 by voice vote after inserting the language of S 925, a
companion bill passed by the Senate June 22. The action was necessary to send the legislation to conference.
The Senate bill differed from the House version in several respects. It required the secretary of the Treasury to
report to Congress whenever he held up a federal agency's financing for more than 60 days, rather than for more
than 120 days as provided by the House version. The Senate bill did not contain the provision which exempted
federal guaranteed obligations from Treasury Department approval; however, it included an amendment added on
the floor exempting Farmers Home Administration financing. The Senate bill contained another floor amendment
expressing the sense of Congress that the federal government should start negotiations with major monetary powers
aimed at eventually allowing sales of U.S. gold stocks to licensed private users.
Conference Report. In a conference report (H Rept 93–700) filed Dec. 5, House and Senate conferees reached
agreement on differing provisions restricting the Treasury's control over agency financing plans.
Compromising those differences, the conferees accepted:
A House provision exempting from Treasury approval all securities guaranteed by federal agencies. The Senate bill
exempted only guaranteed securities sold to large numbers of individuals.
A Senate amendment excluding from Treasury approval the Farmers Home Administration securities sold to finance
rural housing assistance.
A Senate provision directing the secretary to approve or disapprove a securities issue within 120 days. If the secretary
did not act within 60 days, moreover, he would have to report his reasons for inaction to Congress. (The House bill
required a decision within 120 days unless reasons were given to Congress.)
A Senate provision forbidding the secretary to impose a disproportionate burden on any particular federal program if it
were necessary to withhold or delay approval of financing plans.
A House provision stating that the bill could not be interpreted as providing additional authority for agencies to borrow
funds or guarantee debts.
The conferees dropped a Senate-added provision stating the sense of Congress that the federal government should
take action, as soon as international monetary conditions permitted, to sell gold to private holders.
Final Action. Both the House and Senate adopted the conference report by voice vote after brief explanations of
the conference reports by chief conferees.
Document Citation
"Federal Financing Bank." CQ Press Electronic Library, CQ Almanac Online Edition, cqal73-1228188. Originally published in CQ
Almanac 1973 (Washington: Congressional Quarterly, 1974). http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal73-1228188 (accessed
July 2, 2009).
Document ID: cqal73-1228188
Document URL: http://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/cqal73-1228188
© 1974, 2009, CQ Press, A Division of SAGE Publications. All Rights Reserved.
2300 N Street N.W., Suite 800 • Washington, D.C. 20037 • 202-729-1800
General Terms of Service | Copyright Notice and Takedown Policy | Masthead
